{"ID": "B00006LPDV", "Title": "Beast of Blood", "Intro": null, "IMDB": null, "Score": 3.7, "Year": -1, "Genre": [], "Director": ["Eddie Romero"], "Starring": ["John Ashley", "Celeste Yarnall", "Eddie Garcia", "Liza Belmonte", "Alfonso Carvajal"], "Supporting": null, "Reviews": [{"Profile": "Fred Adelman", "Moment": {"Year": 2014, "Month": 10, "Day": 30}, "Score": 5.0, "Summary": "The final Chapter of the BLOOD ISLAND trilogy", "Text": "WARNING MAJOR SPOILERS: This is the final film in the \"Blood Island Trilogy\", which began with BRIDES OF BLOOD (1968; which had its own self-contained story) and then continued on with MAD DOCTOR OF BLOOD ISLAND (1968/1969) , which this film concludes the story to. If you read my review of MAD DOCTOR, you would know that as Dr. Bill Foster (John Ashley, who did more for Filipino cinema in the 70's besides Roger Corman), Sheila and Carlos (both who are not seen in this film) are leaving Blood Island, there was a little surprise in the life boat of their ship. BEAST OF BLOOD (also known as BLOOD DEVILS and THE BEAST OF THE DEAD) picks up immediately where MAD DOCTOR left off. The chlorophyll monster (who is actually Carlos' mutated father) pops up out of the life boat with an axe and begins to chop up the crew (I must remind you, this was a PG-Rated film, but there is nothing in the gore and nudity department that is held back) and then throws a drum of flammable liquid at the crew from an upper deck. After slaughtering a few more of the crew (including a stupid one who is holding a torch right next to the leaking flammable liquid), the boat catches on fire and explodes. Bill calls out Sheila's name a couple of times and is blown overboard, he being the only survivor. Well, he's the only human survivor. The chlorophyll monster washes ashore and runs through the jungle as the opening titles appear. Six months later, as Bill has been rescued by the natives of Blood Island and he goes back to the mainland, he decides to make the trip back to Blood Island, because he hears that Dr. Lorca (Eddie Garcia; BAMBOO GODS AND IRON MEN - 1974; he replaces Ronald Remy in the role from the previous film; this time he wears an eyepatch and one side of his face is burned) and his brutal right-hand man, Razak (Bruno Punzalan, who returns from the second film), have survived the explosion of their cave lab on top of a waterfalls and are still experimenting on the natives. Bill wants to stop Dr. Lorca and his experiments once and for all.  Also on the ship to Blood Island is reknown photographer/reporter M.J. Russell (Celeste Yarnall; THE VELVET VAMPIRE - 1971), who has been assigned by her magazine (kind of like The National Enquirer) to do a photo essay and article on Bill's exploits. Bill doesn't like the idea at all, but you know Bill: There hasn't been a woman he hasn't taken to bed. Right now, Bill has nothing but vengeance on his mind, due to Sheila's murder and Dr. Lorca using the natives as his own experimental subjects. If M.J. wants to find out what is going on at Blood Island, she is going to have to find out for herself. When they get to Blood Island, Bill notices that the village has moved, but the Captain (Beverly Miller, who is a man in case you were wondering) said the village probably moved because the fishing was better, but Bill knows that is a bulls*** excuse. The natives are scared of Bill because \"the evil one touched you\" and many villagers are missing, including beautiful native girl Laida's (Liza Belmonte) father, who she blames on Bill (When M.J. tries to take her photo, Laida slaps the camera away and tells M.J. if she wants her photo, to ask first). Laida also blames Bill for the village moving, because the land it use to be on is now cursed. Bill talks to old friend, village elder Ramu (Alphonso Carvajal, who returns from the  film). Ramu, who is not too pleased with Bill, tells him that the \"green people\" are still roaming the jungle and kidnapping or murdering their residents. That night, someone pulls the wire from the generator and the electricity goes out. Bill (who is never without a pistol) checks out the generator and M.J. is nearly killed by a green man, but Laida kills him with a machete. The following morning, Bill, M.J., Laida, the Captain, Ramu and a handful of natives (who are willing to work with Bill) scour the island looking for Dr. Lorca, who everyone on the island thinks is dead because he hasn't been seen since the explosion at the cave six months earlier. They do find a camoflaged tunnel, but before Bill can find the triggering mechanism to open it, they find a building full of rotting native corpses and M.J. falls through a trap door and comes face-to-face with a cobra. Bill kills the cobra with his pistol and rescues M.J.. With the help of Laida and some natives, they keep an eye on the late Mrs. Lopez's mansion (read my review of MAD DOCTOR) that night because Bill believes Dr. Lorca is still alive and secretly living there. Bill and Laida see a light shining in one of the windows and when they go to the room, they find a severed human head on a table and Razak lurking around. Bill and Laida chase Razak, when Ramu appears and tells Bill that M.J. has been kidnapped. Bill thinks the hidden tunnel is the key, so he finds the hidden mechanism to open it and they all go inside (it is actually a huge underground cavern). It leads to an outside camp on the other side of the island, which is patrolled by Dr. Lorca's guards and Razak is leading them. They spot M.J. in the camp, but there are too many guards and not enough weapons to save M.J. Bill comes up with a plan: He will follow the guards and M.J. alone, while Ramu and his group (and any additional natives he can talk into coming with him) will go back to the Captain's ship and get all the automatic weapons aboard. Bill will leave a trail the group can follow once they come back. Laida insists that she goes with Bill and this is one lady you don't say \"No!\" to. Razak leads his group and M.J. deeper into the jungle, with Bill and Laida following them close behind. They set up camp for the night, where one of the guards tries to rape M.J. (lots of naked breasts in this sequence), but Razak puts a gun to his head and threatens to blow it off if he goes any further (I guess even evil right-hand men have their limits). All this happens after M.J. manages to break free from the ropes tied around her hands and she runs right into a dead native tied spead-eagle between two trees and screams (letting the guards know she has escaped) and then runs and falls into a pit of quicksand! (\"M.J.\" probably stands for \"Major Jerk\"). Bill and Laida still manage to keep close tabs on M.J. and Bill discovers the waterfalls from the previous film, so he knows where Dr. Lorca is hiding. Bill and Laida settle down for the night and Laida wants to make love with Bill (more female bare breasts), but Bill is still hurting over Sheila's death and can't go through with it. Laida, a normally tough woman, actually understands. We then switch to Dr. Lorca and find out why the chlorophyll monster hasn't been attacking natives for the past six months: Dr. Lorca has actually removed the chlorophyll monster's head and tries to transplant native heads on the monster's body, while the head of the monster watches. Dr. Lorca knows that the monster's head can talk, but it never says anything to him. We watch one particularly disgusting scene of Dr. Lorca removing a native's head from his body (I'm not even certain the MPAA would let this get by with an R-Rating today without some edits) and try to transplant it on the monster's body, but the transplant fails. As Dr. Lorca and Razak leave the room, we hear the head of the monster say, \"The day may come soon, Lorca!\" Bill suddenly decides that he will surrender to Dr. Lorca, thinking Lorca will not kill him (the logic here is just mind-numbing!) and to get his attention, he throws a guard into a pit full of spikes (more footage that would never be shown in a PG-Rated film today) and the guard that tried to rape M.J. accidentally shoots and kills one of his own men thinking it is Bill (we watch as the blood from his gunshot wounds spurt blood, while he spits blood out of his mouth). Before Bill is captured, Ramu, the Captain and the natives come up with a plan to save Bill and M.J. once he gives himself up. They decide to attack at night under the cover of darkness. Bill is captured by Razak (He says, \"Is the doctor in?\"), while we see potential green-skinned head donors herded into a shed. M.J. is wearing a rather fetching flowered bikini top with matching sarong, while Bill tries to convince Dr. Lorca that he is on his side because the government gave him no other choice but for him to resign, otherwise he faced time in prison (all of it is a lie; or is it?). Dr. Lorca believes the chlorophyll monster is harmless while its head is removed, but he will soon find out that is not the case. In the meantime, Bill and M.J. find some time to get busy (I guess he forgot all about Sheila after seeing M.J. in her getup, but he certainly does get his share of women, doesn't he?). As nighttime approaches. Bill's plan goes into action, just as Razak picks another green-skinned native to be the recipient of losing his noggin for science. Bill's crew surround the camp and the generator is destroyed, just as Dr. Lorca is about to remove the native's head. They wait for the emergency generator to kick-in, while the two warring parties outside begin killing each other (We see people blown apart with grenades, riddled with bullets, slashed and impaled with machetes and impaled with spears). The backup generator kicks in, which turns out to be bad news for Dr. Lorca. M.J.'s would-be rapist captures her once again with rape on his mind, but Laida stabs him in the back. Still not dead, the rapist turns his attention towards Laida, but M.J. finishes him off with a spear to his back (Hey, at least he got two penetrations!). Razak is killed when Bill pumps him full of lead. Laida lets all the infected green people out of the shed, only to discover one of them is her father. The headless chlorophyll monster breaks the bindings from the operating table and the head says to Dr. Lorca, \"We can talk now, Lorca!\" The headless body tosses Dr. Lorca around like a ragdoll, while the monster's head laughs. The headless body then crushes Dr. Lorca's head with a heavy piece of electronic equipment, but also starts a fire in the process. For those of you looking for the chlorophyll monster to reattach its head with its body as shown on the poster and other advertising material, I'm afraid that never happens, because the entire laboratory caves-in, but not before Bill is able to collect some of Dr. Lorca's paperwork (in order to prove to the scientific community what is going on under their nose; or maybe what he said about being forced to quit was true and he's going to use the information for his own experiments). The natives set the camp on fire and it explodes. So ends the Blood Island Trilogy, but what exactly is in that crate we see the last native carrying away? I'm afraid we will never know, but I would like to think it is the head of the chlorophyll monster. This is the only film of the Blood Island Trilogy that was directed solely by Eddie Romero (BEAST OF THE YELLOW NIGHT - 1970; THE WOMAN HUNT - 1972; THE TWILIGHT PEOPLE - 1972; BEYOND ATLANTIS - 1973; BLACK MAMA WHITE MAMA - 1973; SAVAGE SISTERS - 1974; SUDDEN DEATH - 1975; all starring John Ashley). He co-directed the first two films in the series with Gerry De Leon (TERROR IS A MAN - 1959; BLOOD OF THE VAMPIRES - 1966) who, for some reason, passed on participating in this film. It's obvious the the headache-inducing rapid in-and-out zooming shots that were in the previous film were DeLeon's idea, because this film has none of it and that's a relief. Although the film starts out rather mild, as it advances it becomes more and more violent. The head transplant scene, where Dr. Lorca is cutting away the skin on the neck is quite surprising for a PG-Rated film, even for back then. John Ashley has always made for a bland action hero, but he publicly stated that he loved doing exploitation films, so at least he got to do what he loved. I just wished he lived long enough to share his stories about the time he spent in the Philippines (a country he loved). He must have had some doozies, especially if the love scene he filmed with Angelique Pettyjohn in MAD DOCTOR was the real thing (which Pettyjohn claims). This is a grand end to an interesting trilogy and can probably claim to be the three films that made people aware that there was a film industry in the Philippines. For that we can all be thankful. The TV versions of this film were missing about 10 minutes of footage, so the best way to go is get the cheap Alpha New Cinema DVD-R, which is a port of the OOP Image Entertainment DVD, minus a couple of extras (The DVD-R still has the Celeste Yarnall interview and she still looks good. It also has a collection of trailers, including the MAD DOCTOR one narrated by a manic Brother Theodore and a commentary track by Sam Sherman). These films have only ever been released in fullscreen, so my hope is that some enterprising DVD company would release all three films in widescreen. But the Philippines film industry was known to not treat their film prints with any care, so widescreen prints may not even exist anymore, unless someone has the Hemisphere Pictures 35mm prints that were released in U.S. theaters. Stranger things have happened. Also starring Angel Buenaventura and Johnny Long. An Alpha New Cinema DVD-R Release. Rated PG.", "Helpful": 6}, {"Profile": "THowerton", "Moment": {"Year": 2017, "Month": 12, "Day": 4}, "Score": 3.0, "Summary": "Prepare for making treks and tracks through jungle, lots and lots of jungle!", "Text": null, "Helpful": 0}, {"Profile": "Cap'n Dave", "Moment": {"Year": 2017, "Month": 6, "Day": 26}, "Score": 3.0, "Summary": "The worst of the 3 Blood Island movies, but still interesting.", "Text": "Compared to the other two Blood Island movies this is sort of dull.  A lot of walking around and talking.  Celeste Yarnall (of Star Trek's The Apple Fame) was very perky, if you know what I mean in 1970.  The \"horror\" portion was sort of a let down.  And the commentary was really dull.  It dealt more with the U.S. company that distributed the movie than the movie itself.  But on the other hand there is that whole topless Celeste Yarnall thing so the movie has that going for it.  Oh, and there was a hot ass kicking \"native\" girl (who had access to eye liner, lipstick and hair conditioner) too.", "Helpful": 1}]}