{"ID": "B00004YA42", "Title": "The Doorway VHS", "Intro": null, "IMDB": null, "Score": 3.5, "Year": 2002, "Genre": [], "Director": [], "Starring": ["Dieter Auner", "Suzanne Bridgham", "Christopher Burdett", "John Cullen (III)", "Teresa DePriest"], "Supporting": null, "Reviews": [{"Profile": "Fred Adelman", "Moment": {"Year": 2015, "Month": 11, "Day": 7}, "Score": 3.0, "Summary": "Creepy little film", "Text": "WARNING SPOILERS AHEAD: This is the last of a series of supernatural haunted house films that Roger Corman made in Irelend from the mid-to-late 90's, which included SPECTRE (1996), KNOCKING ON DEATH'S DOOR (1998) and THE HAUNTING OF HELL HOUSE (1998), all above-average horror B-Films, each with their fair share of goosebump-inducing moments. THE DOORWAY is actually a barely-disguised version of THE EVIL (1977), but for a copy, it is a damn fine one (and funny as hell, too). Even though this film was shot in Galway, Ireland (watch the documentary IT CAME FROM CONNEMARA!! [2014] to witness how Corman changed filmmaking in Ireland, as he formed his own production company there from 1996 to 2002 and churned out dozens of films of all genres), it actually takes place somewhere in modern-day New England, where we see a power company employee driving to a notorious haunted house (the same house used in the other three haunted house films mentioned above) to turn on the electricity. When he was a kid, he broke some of the house's windows and when he goes down to the basement to turn on the electricity, a demon comes out of nowhere and pushes him into the fusebox and he is electrocuted. Four college students get free rent for the semester and $10,000 to stay at the house and fix it up. The college kids meet the always-angry Mr. Hoskins (Ricco Se) at the front of the house and he hands would-be actor Rick (Christian Harmony; who idolizes W.C. Fields) an envelope which details all the work they need to do at the house. The other three kids take one good look at the outside of the house (all the windows are boarded-up and half of the porch railing is lying on the ground) and they rip into Rick since he took the job without even coming to see the house first. Rick says, \"It's not like the house is haunted or anything.\" which jokester Owen (Don Maloney, who gets the lion's share of funny lines) replies, \"Rick, I doubt any self-respecting ghost would live here!\" (Oh, if they only knew!). Owen and Tammy (Lauren Woodland; \"Emily Francisco\" on the ALIEN NATION TV series [1989 - 1990] and series of TV movies) get mad and Tammy says she is leaving, but Rick's girlfriend Susan (Suzanne Bridgham) talks her out of it. Tammy says she will stay as long as she gets first pick of the bedrooms. They all enter the house and see what an awful state of disrepair it is in (Owen says, \"The dorm's looking pretty good right now!\") and are greeted by a mouse scurrying on the floor. Tammy chases it away, saying rodents don't bother her because she was raised on a farm. We are then treated to an 80's-like montage of the four college kids cleaning the inside of the house, while a funky tune titled \"Love In The House\" (sung by Michele Vice) plays on the soundtrack. After we get to know a little info and quirks about the four kids (Like Tammy has a doll collection and Susan's parents aren't too pleased that she is dating an actor), Owen (who has a secret crush on Tammy) finds a dusty book in the house's library titled \"Superstitions Of Early New England\", which happens to be the subject of his college thesis \"Mystery And Magic In Colonial America\". Owen discovers that the house was built on the site where, back in the 1600's, people use to perform sexual Devil worship. The house was built by Walter Van Buren (Robert G. Hall) a couple of centuries ago and we are treated to a flashback (narrated by Owen) of what went on during that time (all using gore and nudity footage from earlier Corman films, like THE HAUNTING OF MORELLA [1990], BURIAL OF THE RATS [1995] and even a scene of Claudia Christian from THE HAUNTING OF HELL HOUSE [1998]), as Van Buren raised demons and ghosts from Hell until the town revolted and killed him. The kids keep hearing strange moaning coming from the house, but fool themselves into believing that old houses like this make those kind of noises all the time (I would have beat a hasty retreat as soon as I heard the first moan!). We then watch as Susan takes a shower (new nudity alert!) when a severed demon hand appears on one of her shoulders. Thinking that Rick as joined her in the shower, she scream out loud when she discovers what it really is, as Rick and Tammy run to the bathroom (Owen is blissfully ignorant, as he has headphones on, listening to music while typing his term paper on his computer). When they get there, the demon hand has disappeared. Tammy goes back to her bedroom, only to find that all her dolls have been moved (two dolls are positioned like they are performing fellatio on each other!). She thinks Owen is responsible, so she goes into his bedroom and yanks the headphones out of his ears, but Owen denies doing it. The next morning, Tammy discovers that all her dolls have been returned to their proper place, but someone altered Owen's term paper on his computer, adding sex-filled passages (Tammy thinks Owen did it himself and is disgusted when she reads the first entry). All four of them gather together in the kitchen to discuss the strange occurrences happening in the house, so Rick and Owen go down to the basement to check if there is anything hinky down there. While Rick is checking the fusebox, Owen has a close encounter with a female demon, who floats in the air, her fingernails grow into claw-like objects in front of our eyes and she has a split tongue like a snake. The female demon almost gets Owen, but she disappears when Rick enters the area. They then hear the two girls screaming upstairs and discover the kitchen sink is overflowing with maggots. That night, Rick is possessed by a demon while making love to Susan (more new nudity alert!). After he is done with Susan, he goes to Tammy bedroom and has sex with her (while her creepy dolls eyes move to watch the action), where he also sports a split tongue and tries to shove it down Tammy's throat. When Tammy wakes up in the morning, she believes it was all a dream, but she is naked and a naked Rick is lying next to her. Susan enters the room and sees both of them in bed and runs out crying. Rick has no memory of even going into Tammy's bedroom, so everyone discusses what happened downstairs, where the female demon shows herself to all of them and floats above the floor while saying, \"Come to me!\" to Rick. Rick says, \"Back off, b***h!\" and the female demon grows her fingernails once again and tries to slash Rick, but they all escape the house and get in their cars to drive to the college. They go to talk to paranormal expert Professor Lamont (Top-billed Roy Scheider; JAWS - 1975; who appears 36 minutes into the film and lasts for about thirty minutes, but he doesn't phone his performance in. He throws himself into the role and looks to be having a great time.), who has given up on investigating the occult because he had a prank pulled on him which nearly cost him his job at the college (It has to do with Cotton Mather. Google him.). After listening to their story, the Professor believes he is being pranked again and says to the four of them, \"Get the hell out of here before I **** you right on the spot. Class dismissed!\" (Scheider is really funny in his delivery. He also says, \"I don't do ghosts anymore...and I never did demons!\"). When Owen mentions that the house they are staying in is the Van Buren house, the Professor says that an electrician was found dead there a week earlier, something the four college kids were never told before. When the kids notice that the Professor's assistant Lydia (Teresa DePriest) bears an uncanny resemblance to the female demon in the house (who we find out was named Evelyn), the Professor becomes interested again because Lydia is a direct descendant of the Van Buren family and she is also a clairvoyant. The six of them head back to the Van Buren house (Where the Professor tells the kids that they should read his book on the occult. When Owen mentions that they are penniless college students, the Professor tells them that he has 500 copies sitting in his garage and will gladly give each of them a copy and sign it, too!). Once inside the house, the Professor sets up his electronic equipment, while the clairvoyant Lydia checks out each room for ghosts and demons. Lydia watches her evil doppelganger Evelyn making love to a man in one of the upstairs bedrooms and then she rips off his head. Lydia passes out and when she comes to, she tells everyone that Evelyn isn't the only demon in this house. She says that something important is hidden behind one of the walls in the basement. While Rick is breaking down the wall with a pickaxe, Evelyn tries to attack Tammy, but Owen impales her with a broom handle and they both run outside. Rick breaks through the wall, where they find the chained-up skeleton of Evelyn. The Professor believes the danger is over because of the discovery, but Evelyn appears behind him and rips his face off (A really graphic effect that comes unexpectedly. Effects were done by the Almost Human effects house.). Lydia tells Susan to burn the skeleton, so she throws an oil lantern at it and it bursts into flames. So does Evelyn. All the kids go to the police while Mr. Hoskins returns to the house, only to discover that the inside of the house is destroyed. The college kids are forced to come back to the house by Deputy Abbott (Brendan Murray), who wants them to show him where the Professor's body is. Mr. Hoskins goes down to the basement and finds it full of demons. He is sucked through the fiery hole in the basement wall, which turns out to be a gateway to Hell. Burning the skeleton allowed it to open. Deputy Abbott forces the four kids to enter the house, but he allows them to remain upstairs while he goes down to the basement to look for the Professor's body. Evelyn has returned, as the college kids find all their possessions destroyed (including Tammy's dolls and Owen's computer). Rick is once again possessed by a demon and Lydia gets a psychic image and races to the house in her car. Sadly, Rick has a pickaxe planted in his head and the demon materializes (he looks like a HELLRAISER reject) and Susan is killed. Tammy and Owen discover that a medallion is needed to close the doorway to Hell and Tammy finds a secret passageway in a bookcase as they are being chased by Evelyn. It leads them to the basement, where we see Lydia grab the medallion and jump into the fiery hole. Evelyn tries to stop her, but the wall closes up and Evelyn is decapitated when she is caught between one side of the wall and the other and the house burns to the ground. The film ends with this comic coda: \"Although no bodies were ever found, Owen and Tammy were convicted of the murders of Rick Bascomb, Susan Daniels, Professor Robert Lamont, Lydia Weston, Ralph Hoskins and Deputy Henry Abbott. Following a courthouse marriage ceremony, they were sent to separate penitentiaries to serve life terms. Conjugal visits are not permitted, however the couple keeps in contact via e-mail. The Van Buren House was re-built two years later and will soon re-open as an upscale bed-and-breakfast. A free copy of 'Ghostly Phenomena' by Professor Robert Lamont will be presented to the first 500 visitors.\"  This is a pretty funny haunted house film that surprises you with the gory demise of Roy Scheider, which should seem out-of-place with the rest of the film, but somehow it doesn't. Director/screenwriter Robert B. Druxman (who is credited for the story to DEMON SLAYER [2004] and the screenplay to DILLINGER AND CAPONE [1995]) keeps the pace quick and some of the dialogue is laugh-out-loud funny. That doesn't means that he skimps on the gore and nudity, because there is plenty throughout the film and, besides the short flashback segment, it is all original. Like all the other films Corman made in Ireland (which also includes BLOODFIST 8: NO WAY OUT [1996]; SPACEJACKED [1997]; A VERY UNLUCKY LEPRECHAUN [1998]; MOVING TARGET [2000]; GAME OF DEATH [2000] and many others), they are all available on DVD in fullscreen only. These films really need to be remastered in their original aspect ratio and be released on DVD or Blu-Ray, so we can appreciate them as they were originally filmed. A lot of Corman's films have been released in widescreen (especially by Shout! Factory and Scorpion Releasing), but most of his films after 1990 have yet to be touched. It's about time that changed. Also starring Joe Moylan, Christopher Burdett, Daniel McNamara, Hoda Saoud, Dieter Auner, John Cullen and an uncredited appearance by Druxman as the College Dean. A New Concorde VHS & DVD Release. Rated R.", "Helpful": 2}, {"Profile": "angela silvester", "Moment": {"Year": 2019, "Month": 5, "Day": 13}, "Score": 5.0, "Summary": "i hate movie that rely on cgi for all there effects", "Text": "this one has solid real effects no cgi but needs some help with he acting", "Helpful": 0}, {"Profile": "Mr. Terry Brown", "Moment": {"Year": 2014, "Month": 11, "Day": 21}, "Score": 3.0, "Summary": "Not great except for Roy's short appearance", "Text": "Bought it because Roy Scheider is in it. Not great except for Roy's short appearance", "Helpful": 0}, {"Profile": "Dan", "Moment": {"Year": 2015, "Month": 2, "Day": 9}, "Score": 4.0, "Summary": "Good Classics", "Text": "Good Classics", "Helpful": 1}, {"Profile": "joel trouchet", "Moment": {"Year": 2014, "Month": 2, "Day": 28}, "Score": 5.0, "Summary": "FINALLY!", "Text": "I have been looking for this for years, finally remembered what it was called and it is still a classic in my books! :)", "Helpful": 3}, {"Profile": "E. G. Guerra", "Moment": {"Year": 2004, "Month": 10, "Day": 15}, "Score": 4.0, "Summary": "GOOD MOVIE! but not great", "Text": "this has the 1980's horror film type, oppossed to the 1990's or 2000s. i think this movie was pretty good but not that great. The last demon in the movie didnt look very scary. i think that they should have used some special effects to make his eyes glow or burn or something to make him look more scary. it was pretty obvious it was a person inside. i know theres no such thing as a demon, but they could have at least tried to make it LOOK real. i didnt like the \"cheap\" way they ended the movie. instead of the actors acting out the ending scene.. instead it is written and the viewer has to READ the complete ending. i watched this movie with my parents cuz i didnt think it had nudity. running into TRICK horror movie covers in the 90s, i didnt think the cover would give as promised. if u are experienced with 1980 horror flicks, then you can tell that the cover of this vhs tape, had nudity in it. they had some really good looking girls here too. at the beginning, this movie was more funny than scary for the first.. 10 mins of the movie. i think it has a little bit of everything. and based on the reviews i seen on amazon, i have to tell one thing to most of the reviewers that say bad things about movies with even just one scene of nudity. i dont see ANYTHING wrong about having nudity in a movie. i cant understand how nudity can make a movie horrible", "Helpful": 2}, {"Profile": "Michael Butts", "Moment": {"Year": 2004, "Month": 1, "Day": 20}, "Score": 1.0, "Summary": "IRISH FRISKY", "Text": null, "Helpful": 1}]}