{"ID": "B00009PY43", "Title": "Squirm", "Intro": null, "IMDB": null, "Score": 3.2, "Year": -1, "Genre": [], "Director": ["Jeff Lieberman"], "Starring": ["Don Scardino", "Patricia Pearcy", "R.A. Dow", "Jean Sullivan", "Peter MacLean"], "Supporting": null, "Reviews": [{"Profile": "BOBjr STEPHENSON", "Moment": {"Year": 2016, "Month": 12, "Day": 25}, "Score": 5.0, "Summary": "I HATE WORMS", "Text": "I gave the movie a 5 star rating because everything is real (not computer generated). In 1975, locations, special effects, make-up, movie extras, and so forth were tangible. NO GREEN SCREEN!!! I remember going to The Universal Studios Back Lot and seeing the house from Psycho and the mechanical shark from Jaws {about 3 feet from my face}. I read that they used multiple shipments of 250k worms. I am impressed by any one who can deal with a set built around thousands of worms... yuck! The screaming worms was totally eerie and made me cringe.", "Helpful": 6}, {"Profile": "Fred Adelman", "Moment": {"Year": 2014, "Month": 10, "Day": 30}, "Score": 5.0, "Summary": "SQUIRM on Blu-Ray. Who would of thought? A classic of the genre!", "Text": "I remember when I originally viewed this film in a theater in 1976 that people walked out during the attack scenes because it just freaked them out. There were a lot of \"Ews!\" and \"Yucks\" being gasped in the audience and rightfully so. This was a really effective little \"nature gone amuck\" horror film about the unlikeliest of killers: Earthworms, or rather, bloodworms, a breed of worm that can actually bite with pincers attached to their mouths. That it was based on an actual incident (but with a lot of liberties taken), just makes it all the more effective. The opening on-screen crawl explains it all: \"Late in the evening of September 29, 1975, a sudden electrical storm struck around a rural sea coast area of Georgia. Power lines, felled by high winds, sent hundreds of thousands of volts surging into the muddy ground, cutting off all electricity to the small, secluded town of Fly Creek. During the period that followed the storm, the citizens of Fly Creek experienced what scientists believe to be one of the most bizarre freaks of nature ever recorded. This is the story....\" We then view the opening credits, where a young girl on the soundtrack sings an eerie song with lyrics such as \"I can hear the dark coming up the stairs\" as we watch the storm knock down an electrical tower, sending a live electrical wire to touch the over-soaked ground with over 300,000 volts of electricity (we will see that live wire several times in the film), turning normal, everyday bloodworms into murderous little killers We hear the worms scream (actually electronically altered sounds of pigs squealing in a slaughterhouse) and see them in extreme close-up thanks to excellent macrophotography (which is very creepy and effective). The day after the storm, we watch Geri Sanders (Patricia Pearcy; THE HOUSE WHERE DEATH LIVES - 1981) taking a  shower, while worm farm co-owner Roger (R.A. Dow; a stage actor, this being his only film) cleans up debris on the front lawn of the Sanders' farmhouse (reportedly in real life to be the most haunted house in Georgia!) and gets an eyefull of Geri after she steps out of the shower (he has an extreme crush on her). Geri's mother, Naomi (Jean Sullivan, in her final film), who just lost her husband (and Geri's father) a few months ago, is not too pleased that Northerner Mick (Don Scardino; HE KNOWS YOU'RE ALONE - 1980) is coming to visit Geri for five days. Geri asks Roger if she can borrow his truck (which is full of 100,000 earthworms in the back) so she can pick up Mick, because the family station wagon was not built to travel the rough back roads. He reluctantly allows her, but Mick's bus is unable to get past a downed tree five miles from Fly Creek, so the wisenheimer bus driver tells Mick to take a shortcut through the woods if he wants to get to Fly Creek quicker. After nearly having a large tree branch fall on him while taking a pee in the woods and falling into a water-filled hole, he meets Geri on the road and they drive to town, where she has to pick up a block of ice for home because the electricity is out. While Geri is getting the ice, Mick stops in to get an eggcream from the local eating establishment (he has to explain to the girl behind the counter how to make it), only to discover one of the killer worms in his drink. The counter girl blames Mick for playing a unfunny practical joke (because he is a Northerner) and the Sheriff (Peter MacLean; FORCE: FIVE - 1981) tells Mick to get out of the diner and wants to know what business he has in town. Mick replies, \"No business, just pleasure.\" and walks out. When Geri returns the truck, all of the worms are missing, which pisses-off Roger's father, Willie (Carl Dagenhart), who says, \"Cost me over $300, sonny boy!' to Mick, but he blames Roger for the lost worms and chews him out in front of Geri and Mick, which makes Roger hate Mick even more. Geri and Mick take the station wagon to go antique shopping and stop at the home of antique dealer Mr. Beardsley, but all they find is a skeleton in the front yard that looks like it was picked clean. They bring the Sheriff back, only to discover that the skeleton is gone (we find out later Roger stole it and hid it in a shed). The Sheriff is not to pleased with Mick and tells him to get out of town and then chastises Geri and says, \"I have no time to book this little city weasel. I have a town to put back together.\" He then turns to Mick and says, \"If I see you one more time, you won't be able to call a city lawyer...because all the phones are dead.\" Now that we have the setup to the film out of the way, including introducing Geri's younger smart-aleck, pot-smoking sister Alma (Fran Higgins, in her only film appearance), who comes on to Mick and relentlessly makes fun of Roger (asking him earlier in the film, \"Where did you get that shirt, Roger? Out robbing corpses again?\") and their mother Naomi acting a little psychotic over the loss of her husband, we get down to the nitty-gritty: the bloodworm attacks. Mick, Geri & Roger take a boat to go fishing, but one of the worms bites Mick and tries to burrow into his arm, so he goes to shore to treat it, leaving Geri and Roger alone on the boat. Geri accidentally knocks over the box of worms and when Roger tries to sexually attack her, she knocks Roger to the floor of the boat, where the flesh-hungry worms burrow into his face (once you see this scene, you will never forget it). Roger and Geri go overboard, where Roger runs to shore, screaming bloody murder. Mick discovers the missing skeleton in the shed, so he and Alma break into the doctor's office and find x-rays of Mr. Beardsley and discover that the skull is missing the same three teeth as the x-ray. While Mick and Alma are doing this, Geri goes home to take a shower, where worms start to slither out of the shower head, but they retract when Geri looks up. Geri meets Mick and Alma, where they all share their stories about what just happened, so Geri and Mick go to the worm farm, where Mick discovers the corpse of Willie, his entire torso eaten away and full of hungry worms. They hop in the car and go to see the Sheriff, but interrupt his spaghetti dinner (symbolism alert!) with a floozy date. The Sheriff blows them off because he's more interested in his dinner and scoring with his floozy. While Mick, Geri, Alma and a weirded-out Naomi are eating dinner, a tree crashes through the roof (the tree's roots eaten away by the worms) but, thankfully, no one was injured, but the dining room is destroyed (this all the more realistic because an actual tree was dropped by a crane onto the set with the actors not using stunt people! The fear on their faces is real.). Mick figures out that light is the worms' kryptonite, so he heads out to get some plywood to repair the damage before night falls. As he is returning back to the house, he is attacked and knocked-out by a crazed, worm-riddled Roger, who tells Mick he spoiled everything for him (He yells out, \"You gonna be spoiled. You gonna be the wormface!\"). Nighttime arrives and the worms attack the Sanders home and the town, first making a meal out of the Sheriff and his floozy as they are making love in a jail cell (!) and then attacking the town's bar, Quigleys, killing all the patrons. Mick wakes up and makes a torch out of his shirt to keep the worms at bay and heads back to save Geri. Mick arrives to discover Naomi's corpse covered in worms and must fight a deranged Roger, who has Geri tied-up in the attic. Mick manages to throw Roger into the sea of worms covering the house's first floor. but Roger's worm-infested body slithers upstairs and nearly kills both Geri and Mick as they climb out a second floor window and hide in a tree. Morning arrives and Geri and Mick are woken up by a power company employee, who tells them the electricity has been restored (therefore ending the murderous worm problem). Alma is also discovered alive, as she was hiding from the worms in the house in a cedar chest. Fall Creek can now go back to normal, minus a Sheriff and a bunch of local drunks.  This was the debut feature film by director/writer Jeff Lieberman (BLUE SUNSHINE - 1977; JUST BEFORE DAWN - 1980; REMOTE CONTROL - 1987 and SATAN'S LITTLE HELPER - 2004), who has been woefully underused in his career as a director because most of his films are unusual gems, including this one (Lieberman previously worked as an Associate Producer on WHO KILLED MARY WHATS'ERNAME [1971] and was co-writer of the police thriller BLADE [1972]). This one has many memorable scenes and still is able to creep you out. Making worms scary is not an easy feat, but Lieberman pulls it off in excellent fashion, using the macrophotography of the screaming worms to jolt you and some very good special makeup effects (by Bill Milling and multi-Academy Award\u00ae-winner Rick Baker, who, at the time of the writing of this review, officially announced his retirement) to gross you out. The scene of Roger pulling worms out of his face was censored from all TV prints and when theatrical distributor American International cut the film by a minute for a PG-Rated re-release, this scene was also deleted (along with a couple of scenes of female topless nudity). This 92-minute version was offered on VHS first by Vestron Video and then by MGM/UA Home Video, but MGM released the uncut 93-minute version on DVD. The Blu-Ray, released by Shout! Factory tentpole Scream Factory, is also the uncut version and is the preferred way of watching this film. While there are a few speckles of dirt onscreen here and there, the print is a revelation of details you may not have noticed in previous versions. What makes the film even more special is that only a handful of the actors on view were actually actors. Most of them were locals from Port Wentworth, Georgia, where the film was made, and it adds realism to the proceedings. Star Don Scardino would have a healthy career as an actor, but reached far greater success as a TV series director, which he continues to do today (he also directed the theatrical film THE INCREDIBLE BURT WONDERSTONE - 2013). If you want to see a nature gone amuck film done right, you could do a whole lot worse than this film. Also starring William Newman, Barbara Quinn, Angel Sande, Carol Jean Owens and Kim Iocouvozzi. The Blu-Ray also has a wealth of new extras (as well as Lieberman's commentary from the MGM DVD), something that Scream Factory is well-known for, as well as applying little or no DNR to the film prints, so they look like they did in theaters. A Scream Factory Blu-Ray Release. Unrated.", "Helpful": 7}, {"Profile": "Greystoke", "Moment": {"Year": 2019, "Month": 12, "Day": 9}, "Score": 2.0, "Summary": "`Vastly Underwhelming", "Text": null, "Helpful": 0}, {"Profile": "Dan ", "Moment": {"Year": 2015, "Month": 8, "Day": 20}, "Score": 5.0, "Summary": "Just as good as I remembered.", "Text": null, "Helpful": 1}]}