{"ID": "B00008MHBX", "Title": "Flavia the Heretic", "Intro": null, "IMDB": null, "Score": 4.3, "Year": -1, "Genre": [], "Director": ["Gianfranco Mingozzi"], "Starring": ["Florinda Bolkan", "Mar\u00eda Casares", "Claudio Cassinelli", "Anthony Higgins", "Spiros Foc\u00e1s"], "Supporting": null, "Reviews": [{"Profile": "Chumango", "Moment": {"Year": 2012, "Month": 1, "Day": 14}, "Score": 4.0, "Summary": "Tormented nun", "Text": "This movie centers around the old, but still timely, issue of male domination over women. The main character played good by Florinda Bolkan (directed by other Italian directors such as Lucio Fulci), who faces awful relationships with her father, Muslim lover, and of course, Catholic Church. The story takes place around Foggia (Italy) during the transition between Middle Ages and Renascence, and uses very nice exteriors and some old monasteries (nothing difficult to find all over Italy!!). Please, note that this is not a nun exploitation movie, with extended sexual depravation around demonic ceremonies. You will have some female and male nudity and some scenes of very graphic violence. Nothing major though compared with a Fulci film. Overall, recommended for fans of Italian or Euro films. As far as the DVD transfer, picture quality is pretty good, widescreen presentation, English audio, no subtitles. Extras include a few trailers and an interesting interview with Florinda Bolkan. By the way, this movie is from 1974, not 1977.", "Helpful": 2}, {"Profile": "Rob", "Moment": {"Year": 2008, "Month": 1, "Day": 24}, "Score": 2.0, "Summary": "Succeeds at nothing", "Text": "Let's face it. Most who watch a movie like this are either hoping for some good sex and gore and can laugh at the plot, or are hoping for a good movie despite the sex and gore.  This one succeeds at neither.  It is a quality film, shot with more expertise than is typical of the genre but takes itself a little too seriously.  The theme of men having all the power in the 1400s is beaten into the viewer continuously to the point where you wish someone could actually hear you when you say I get it already.  I would disagree on the attractiveness of women in the 7os as a few reviewers noted hairy armpits and such.  They didn't have Barbie wannabees back then.  Unfortunately the few scenes that actually do show nudity are far from erotic.  If you are an ultra-feminist, and don't mind having your own point of view pointed out non-stop then this is the movie for you.", "Helpful": 9}, {"Profile": "Fred Adelman", "Moment": {"Year": 2014, "Month": 5, "Day": 18}, "Score": 5.0, "Summary": "Like some meat with your blood & guts?", "Text": "I have never been a fan of the Italian \"nunsploitation\" genre, as I find the antics of sex-crazed nuns unappealing to me (no matter how beautiful the are), but this film, which is one of the first films to give birth to the genre, is more like \"Joan Of Arc\" than a straight-up exploitation film, and, even though it has its share of exploitative moments, it plays more like a historical drama than it does a nunsploitation film. It could be because it was directed/produced/co-written by Gianfranco Mingozzi, who was better known for his many documentaries than for any other type of genre. Maybe that's why this film seems more like a chronicle of one person's life, told through her eyes, as she witnesses the worst that religion and politics (that go hand-in-hand in this film) than a sex-laden portrayal of a convent, which most nunsploitation flicks portray. Don't get me wrong; there is plenty of nudity and violence in this film, but the nudity is not there to titillate audiences and the violence is shown to relay to us just how bad it was in 1400's Europe, especially for women. FLAVIA THE HERETIC (shown in U.S. theaters in a severely edited form as FLAVIA PRIESTESS OF VIOLENCE, which is a totally misleading title, but that was the way advertising ran back then to put asses in the seats) opens in 1400 A.D., with the title female (Florinda Bolkan; LAST HOUSE ON THE BEACH - 1978) looking upon a field of dead enemy Muslims after a major battle. When she tries to give aid to a wounded Muslim soldier, her father (Diego Michelotti), a general who fought for the other side, decapitates the Muslim soldier and parades around with his head on a pike for all his soldiers to see. To teach Flavia a lesson for showing such insolence, he sends her to a convent in Portugal, where she has her hair sheared off like a sheep would (All the convent women's hair is used as hair for the statues of Christ as he is crucified on the cross, which the nuns manufacture. Women's hair on a holy man's statue. Does anyone see the irony in this?) and made to lie on a cold stone floor face-down for long periods of time, with her arms out to the side so that she looks like a crucifix. Flavia remains a rebel, for every time she looks at a religious fresco of a saint on one of the convent's wall, she see the image of a Muslim soldier coming to life to lead a battle. The convent gets a visit from the members of the Tarantula Cult, who act crazy (one of the head nuns says they act that way because they were bitten by tarantulas!), sexually writhing and dancing around the convent's religious statues and artifacts, a practice Flavia finds both strange and fascinating (consider them the 1400's version of the Charles Manson Family). Most of the nuns are repulsed watching these female cult members rubbing their naughty bits with their hands and religious objects, while a few other nuns are converted and join in the sexual shenanigans, baring their breasts and begging for the tarantulas to bite them, too. Flavia watches Sister Livia (Raika Juri), who is her friend, get into some lesbian activity with one of the cult members, but this turns out to be a trap by convent's Mother Superior (Jill Pratt; WATCH ME WHEN I KILL - 1977), who lets these loons enter the convent once a year to weed out the bad apprentice nuns, and then tortures the ones who don't follow the Scripture, by stringing them up with rope, making them sit in the hollowed-out carcass of an cow or by tying their hands behind their backs and twisting the rope tighter by using a wooden crucifix, while Mother Superior says, \"You must pay for your sins!\". Of course, Flavia is horrified to see such tactics used. Flavia's only friend outside the convent is Jewish peasant Abraham (Claudio Cassenelli; THE GREAT ALLIGATOR - 1979), who has discussions with Flavia about the first woman on Earth, which wasn't Eve, but \"Lillith\", who Abraham says was \"made from the refuge of the Devil.\" Flavia questions why women have to be subservient to men and asks Abraham what would happen if a woman took the lead in a male-dominated society. Abraham really doesn't have an answer but it gets him thinking. While Flavia is walking back to the convent, she watches as some nuns castrate a horse (nothing is left to the imagination) and is appalled at what she just witnessed (There is so much symbolism in this film, the Blu-Ray should come with a booklet explaining them all!). When the Bishop and his guards pay a visit to the convent, Sister Livia is handed over to him, where he will have his Inquisition-like religious zealot guards torture her to death. Flavia then witnesses a French Duke (Spiros Focas) rape a defenseless peasant girl in a pig sty (Like I said, we need a symbolism guide) and when the Duke catches Flavia watching him doing the dirty deed (in more ways than one!), he threatens to rape her, too, telling her who would the Church believe, an influential French Duke or a nun? (In that era, the Duke would win every time). Flavia storms back to the convent and defiantly pulls the loincloth off the statue of Jesus and asks him, \"Why... why? Why is God male? The Father the Son and the Holy Ghost - all male. Even the twelve apostles. All twelve of them - males.\" We are about to witness Flavia become the first true Feminist, but with a violent twist. Flavia watches at the top of the torture chamber (it has a large windowless hole in the top of the roof) as the Bishop and his guards torture Sister Livia by pouring boiling hot oil on her breasts and torso while she screams for mercy. When Flavia's father catches her watching the torture session, he tells his \"cursed\" daughter to return to the convent, but Flavia replies he is the cursed one because he and all the other men treat women worse than dogs. She tells her father that what they see happening below them would never happen to the French Duke for raping an innocent woman, so Daddy slaps Flavia hard across her face. They both watch as one of the torturers grabs one of Sister Livia's nipples with iron tongs and then slices it off with a dagger (The film's most graphic and wincing scene). This proves to be the proverbial straw that breaks Flavia's back. She is about to strike a blow for all womankind and it's going to be bloody. She asks Abraham to go far away with her because she has escaped the convent, like \"Lilith escaped Adam.\" They end up at a beach on the ocean, where they barely escape the Bishop's search party (Abraham was under house arrest for committing heresy). They are eventually caught, though (just as virgin Flavia was going to give herself to Abraham), and Flavia is stripped, tied to a post and whipped repeatedly while her father watches (she spits in his direction as a sign of defiance). Abraham is thrown in a dungeon and not even tortured (he is a man after all). Flavia is brought back to the convent, where she has visions of picking up a sword, joining the Muslim army and fighting their oppressors. The once-cruel Mother Superior actually admires Flavia now, as she shares her feelings with her. She also thinks that it is a male-dominated world and the time has come for women to stand their ground. Flavia gets an even more heightened sense of empowerment from Mother Superior's words. She makes Flavia feel that the female of the species is the stronger of the sexes and when a Muslim army arrives by ship to attack the Church's army, Flavia joins \"The Other World\" and fights side-by-side with the handsome Ahmed (Anthony Corlan; VAMPIRE CIRCUS - 1972), the man in her visions, to destroy the Church and all it stands for, especially after she sees her father impale Mother Superior with a spear. Flavia's father is captured and as soon as Flavia and Ahmed lock eyes, they know they were meant for each other and he takes Flavia's virginity. After a lengthy battle in the village (where we see a friar impaled on a pike through his ass and out his neck), Flavia, Ahmed and the Muslim army head to the convent, where the nuns cower behind the bolted door. The army batters it down and Flavia heads into the convent on horseback, throwing a mace that sticks in the face of the fresco of their patron saint. Flavia points out the cruel nuns to the army and they kidnap them. Flavia now has the role of Bishop, as she holds a funeral for Mother Superior, while making her captive father watch. Flavia has the innocent girl earlier in the film try to rape the French Duke, but when it is apparent that the Duke is enjoying himself, he is bent over a barrel, cornholed by some guards and then castrated, like Flavia saw the horse castrated earlier in the film (The Duke is now a Duchess!). Flavia has another vision, where the fresco of the saint comes alive and pulls the mace off his face. Mother Superior rises from the dead as the blood of the saint flowns onto a naked Ahmed's back. Jesus is no longer crucified on the cross. In his place are totally naked females, as are all the nuns, and the door of the convent opens with a blinding light behind it (There is too much symbolism in this scene to even describe in a review). Flavia wakes up with her hands covered in candle wax (showing she has had that vision for a loooong time) and discovers all the nuns are dead (some are hanged, some have their throats slit and others are impaled with spears). Flavia dons a suit of armor and joins the fight, where she discovers the Church has sent reinforcements to the village and Flavia's father is free. Flavia chases her father on horseback and watches as Ahmed's army pushes her father off the hole in the roof of the torture chamber, killing him. When Flavia discovers Abraham is still alive, she goes running to him, but a jealous Ahmed cuts off Abraham's head with a scimitar. Flavia discovers \"The Other World\" is no different than when she was living as a nun at the convent. She watches Ahmed and what is left of his army sail back to his homeland and Flavia is taken prisoner by the Church for treason. Her punishment is a particularly cruel and painful one: She has the skin just above both her ankles cut all around and is flayed alive by pulling her skin off her body from the ankles-up. She screams while an on-screen scrawl states that the idea behind this film came from the true story known as \"The Martyrdom Of The 800 At Otranto\" (Google it if you want to learn more).  While scenes in this film are exploitative, this really isn't an exploitation film. It is more of a historical document on the way women across the world were treated as less than human for centuries (Hell, women didn't get the right to vote in the United States until the 1920's!). Like I said in the beginning of this film, director Gianfranco Mingozzi made precious few fictional films, rather making documentaries right up until he passed away in 2009. That is why this film could play as a biography of a real person (it isn't though) because everything we see is through Flavia's eyes. But Italians being Italians, they certainly knew how to bastardize what was obviously a serious film and made many \"nunsploitation\" films (like Bruno Mattei's THE OTHER HELL [1980] and too many more to begin listing) that play the sex and violence angle purely for entertainment. I actually hate the genre (just like I despise \"Naziploitation\" films), which is why you see precious few of them reviewed on this web site. Released years ago in uncut widescreen form on DVD by Synapse Films (I'm not sure whether this ever had an official VHS release in the States), the Blu-Ray, from Scorpion Releasing, was taken from a brand new master print of the uncut version and it is flawless. If you want to see one of the first films to inspire the nunsploitation genre, but not wallow in exploitation and actually treat the subject matter seriously, then by all mean, FLAVIA THE HERETIC comes highly recommended. But if all you want to see is nuns having sex with each other, with priests and other men and then get slaughtered for entertainment value, look somewhere else. This is not that kind of film. Also starring Maria Casares, Franca Grey, Laura DeMarchi, Ciro Ippolito (future director of ALIENS 2: ON EARTH - 1980), Carla Mancini and Giuseppe Pertile as the Bishop. A Scorpion Releasing Blu-Ray Release. Not Rated.", "Helpful": 1}, {"Profile": "Robert Jackson", "Moment": {"Year": 2014, "Month": 8, "Day": 3}, "Score": 5.0, "Summary": "Perverts will be disappointed, but who cares", "Text": "Based on a true story. This movie did well in keeping the grosser aspects of early catholic rule. but didn't hide anything from the presentation.  Perverts will be disappointed, but who cares.", "Helpful": 0}]}