{"ID": "B00004W4GD", "Title": "Psychic Killer", "Intro": null, "IMDB": null, "Score": 3.9, "Year": -1, "Genre": [], "Director": ["Ray Danton"], "Starring": ["Paul Burke", "Jim Hutton", "Julie Adams", "Nehemiah Persoff", "Neville Brand"], "Supporting": null, "Reviews": [{"Profile": "Fred Adelman", "Moment": {"Year": 2014, "Month": 11, "Day": 1}, "Score": 5.0, "Summary": "Unsung classic horror film from the 70's.", "Text": "WARNING MAJOR SPOILERS: During the 70's, Kirlian Photography and Astral Projection were all the rage (even though Kirlian Photography was discovered in the 1930's). The explanation is simple: every object, even inanimate objects, have their own energy force and there was now a way to photograph it and even manipulate it. Entire films were made in the 70's on the subject (INVISIBLE STRANGLER - 1977; PATRICK - 1978; THE KIRLIAN WITNESS - 1979), and this film, originally to be called THE KIRLIAN FORCE, but changed at the last minute, is one of actor/director Raymond Danton's (DEATHMASTER - 1972; CRYPT OF THE LIVING DEAD - 1973; and much episodic TV; Danton passed away in 1992 at the age of 60) most unusual efforts. The film begins with Arnold Masters (Jim Hutton; DON'T BE AFRAID OF THE DARK - 1973) going crazy at a prison mental institution, screaming \"Everything I love dies!\" (about his mother; she passed away six months earlier and they just told him now). He has been unjustly committed to the mental hospital for a murder he didn't commit and his personal doctor Laura Scott (Julie Adams; CREATURE FROM THE BLACK LAGOON - 1954) is worried about his mental state, especially since he has been so calm before. The prison hospital then puts him in a ward with even worse mental patients, where Arnold meets Emilio (Stack Pierce; TRANSFORMED - 2003), who stands by a fence on the hospital's roof and tells Arnold that he \"is waiting for a train\" (It is probably the film's most emotional moment) as an AmTrack train passes below them. Arnold declares his innocence to Emilio, telling him how his mother got sick, but because he didn't have the money, the doctors wouldn't operate on her to save her life. He wanted to sell his mother's old home, but she wouldn't allow it and when one of the doctors ended up murdered, Arnold was convicted of murder but judged mentally unfit to serve jail time. Emilio, on the other hand, professes his guilt and tells Arnold that he murdered his daughter because she became a drug addict and sullied the family name. He also tells Arnold that once he kills his daughter's drug dealer (he plans on slitting his throat), he will give Arnold a chance to leave the institution for good. One night, Arnold watches as Emilio uses an amulet to go into some kind of a trance and the next morning, he tells Arnold that he now has to \"catch that train\", so Emilio climbs over the fence and jumps to his death while an AmTrack train passes. Emilio leaves Arnold all his possessions, including the amulet and a letter that was just delivered that morning that is nothing but a newspaper clipping that says a drug dealer was murdered by having his throat cut from ear-to-ear last night. Arnold then knows that Emilio was able to leave his body by using the amulet and tries it on himself. A hospital orderly finds Arnold on the floor and he is declared dead and brought to the morgue for an autopsy. When the coroner begins to make an incision into Arnold's chest, he suddenly wakes up and the hospital's head doctor (Rod Cameron) tells Laura that if this news gets out (that they tried to autopsy a live person), their hospital will be closed down. Luckily for Arnold (and the hospital) the real person who committed the murder blamed on Arnold confessed, which makes Arnold a free man. He heads for his mother's old house, which is full of cobwebs and has a nice white kitty as a resident. The cat actually gives Arnold the idea of using the power he now has of leaving his body (known as \"Astral Projection\" or having an \"Out Of Body\" experience [or OOB]) and getting even with those responsible for his mother's death. His first victim is Dr. Paul Taylor (Whit Bissell; I WAS A TEENAGE FRANKENSTEIN - 1957), the doctor that refused to give his mother the life-saving operation without being paid first. The sleazy old doctor brings a married woman to his cabin in the woods for some nookie, but Arnold talks throughout the entire ordeal and only Dr. Taylor can hear it. It drives the doctor crazy and he goes outside with a shotgun. We hear one shell being fired and then Dr. Taylor is found dead with a broken neck. The detective on the case, Lt. Jeff Morgan (Paul Burke; THE DISEMBODIED - 1957), is stymied by the case because it is obvious the nervous married woman doesn't have the strength to snap a neck. Arnold's next victim is his mother's uncaring Nurse Burdon (Mary Wilcox; LOVE ME DEADLY - 1972; BLACK OAK CONSPIRACY - 1977), who we see sexually teasing a terminal patient in his own home, before doing a striptease and taking a shower. It will be the last shower of her life because the shower head begins to emit scalding water (and turns in her direction so she cannot avoid it) and the nurse is unable to get out of the shower until she crashes through the glass shower door. Again Jeff and his partner, Lt. Dave Anderson (Aldo Ray; TERROR ON ALCATRAZ - 1987) are flummoxed, as the apartment building's hot water heater is incapable of reaching scalding temperatures. Jeff sends Police Sgt. Marv Sowash (filmmaker Greydon Clark, who co-wrote this film with Danton and genre vet Mikel Angel) to the scene of the first crime to see if he can find something that the crime scene investigators missed. Jeff doesn't realize that Marv was Arnold's arresting officer and his next victim, as Arnold takes control of his car and drives it off a cliff, killing Marv. When Jeff interrogates a motorcycle cop (Marland Proctor) who was chasing Marv for speeding, the cop tells Jeff that he could swear he heard Marv say \"Help me!\". Now that there are three unexplained deaths, Jeff makes the connection of all the deaths with Arnold and keeps a close eye on him and his house by telescope at a house located across the street. Laura also joins Jeff because she is deeply concerned about Arnold and they both spy on him going into such a deep sleep that even continued phone calls don't wake him up (Arnold is actually murdering construction tycoon Harvey B. Sanders [Joseph Della Sorte], who wanted to tear down his mother's house, by dropping a heavy cornerstone on his body using a crane.). It's not long before Laura and Jeff become lovers and sleep together at Jeff's house. It is there that Laura spots Arnold in the kitchen (who has left his body once again), who tells Laura that he watched Laura and Jeff making love and he wishes that it was him instead. When Jeff enters the kitchen, Arnold disappears and Laura tells Jeff that they need to see an old friend of hers, Dr. Gubner (Nehemiah Persoff; THE POWER - 1968), who is an expert on Kirlian Photography and how some humans are able to let their energies leave their bodies to have Out Of Body experiences. Jeff, Laura, and Dr. Grubner go to Arnold's house, where they discover he is in another trance (a trance that actually makes the body look dead). Arnold is actually out killing crooked butcher Lemonowski (Neville Brand; THE MAD BOMBER - 1972) for charging too much for his meat (and putting his hand on the scale)! Lemonowski then is forced to put his hand in a meat grinder (the film's bloodiest effect), has his arms tenderized and then has all his appendages cut off by a band saw (offscreen). When Jeff, Laura and Dr. Grubner make it to Lemonowski's butcher shop (thanks to a police radio report), they find the torso of Lemonowski hanging on a meat hook. Jeff comes up with a brilliant idea on how to stop Arnold: The next time he goes into one of his trances (which he does, to take Laura sexually by force), he will have a doctor next to Arnold's body to sign a death certificate and then his lifeless body will be transported to the nearest crematorium to be burned. That's exactly what Jeff does, and as Arnold's body is being burned alive, the non-corporeal Arnold (who is rapidly deteriorating because of the fire) appears to Laura to say one final thing: \"Everything I love dies!\"  For a film that was Rated PG (this is the 70's version of PG, not the watered-down version of today), this film is very violent in spots (without actually being bloody or gory) and is not shy in showing Mary Wilcox's nipples and naked ass more than a few times when she is taking a shower. The film is never boring and is chock-full of stars familiar to fans of the horror genre (the majority of them are no longer with us) and is a perfectly fine way to spend 90 minutes of your time. Jim Hutton (who died at age 49 in 1979) is rather low-key, but effective, and everyone else does a more than adequate job in the acting department. The final shot (of the cat with the amulet) left this film wide open for a sequel (Could Arnold have transferred his energy into the cat?), but it never happened. That's a shame, because this film is a nice relic from the 70's, when any plot device could be used effectively without seeming corny. Highly recommended. Also starring Della Reese (in a funny cameo where she argues with Lemonowski about his meat practices and accepting Food Stamps), Judith Brown, John Dennis, Bill Quinn and Sandra Rustam (daughter of producer Mardi Rustam, who directed the bad film EVILS OF THE NIGHT - 1985; and directed the new scenes of EVIL TOWN - 1974/1985), Originally released on VHS by Embassy Home Entertainment. But if you want to see the film as it should be seen, buy the DVD from Dark Sky Films and watch it in all its widescreen anamorphic glory. It's short on extras (just some TV spots and the theatrical trailer), but it is a beautiful print that hasn't been washed away of grain. Don't let the PG Rating fool you, this is adult stuff. Rated PG.", "Helpful": 3}, {"Profile": "MoviemanKev", "Moment": {"Year": 2019, "Month": 3, "Day": 9}, "Score": 5.0, "Summary": "extremely 70s forgotten horror gem", "Text": null, "Helpful": 2}, {"Profile": "D.Richmond", "Moment": {"Year": 2016, "Month": 7, "Day": 14}, "Score": 5.0, "Summary": "An X-File", "Text": "Blu ray looks great, what's better is the forgotten gem. I merely wished to see Julie Adams outside of the black lagoon. Here she plays a Dana Scully type character on a case that would've been a great episode of X-Files (if perhaps it hasn't been already...wink wink).  Highly recommend this well directed, acted, and written film about a wrongfully convicted man who inherits the power to psychically kill those who had him wrongfully imprisoned.", "Helpful": 2}, {"Profile": "cookieman108", "Moment": {"Year": 2005, "Month": 10, "Day": 27}, "Score": 4.0, "Summary": "\"Perhaps the good sergeant died of a guilty conscience.\"", "Text": null, "Helpful": 7}, {"Profile": "wilhemina. C. miller", "Moment": {"Year": 2018, "Month": 3, "Day": 4}, "Score": 5.0, "Summary": "excellent job!", "Text": "good job on a old movie like this one. excellent!", "Helpful": 0}]}