{"ID": "B000059PS3", "Title": "A Blade In The Dark VHS", "Intro": null, "IMDB": null, "Score": 3.3, "Year": 2001, "Genre": [], "Director": ["Lamberto Bava"], "Starring": ["Andrea Occhipinti", "Anny Papa", "Fabiola Toledo", "Michele Soavi", "Valeria Cavalli"], "Supporting": null, "Reviews": [{"Profile": "Steve V.", "Moment": {"Year": 2014, "Month": 10, "Day": 6}, "Score": 3.0, "Summary": "Psycho Killer, Can't You See?", "Text": null, "Helpful": 3}, {"Profile": "Daniel Kepley", "Moment": {"Year": 2004, "Month": 1, "Day": 6}, "Score": 5.0, "Summary": "You Are A Female! You Are A Female!", "Text": null, "Helpful": 5}, {"Profile": "Douglas A. Sommer", "Moment": {"Year": 2019, "Month": 11, "Day": 23}, "Score": 4.0, "Summary": "Very good, though drags a bit", "Text": "Very atmospheric work. you'll be able to figure who the killer is through process of elimination, and the movie probably could have been trimmed about 15 minutes, but still a nice work", "Helpful": 0}, {"Profile": "Fred Adelman", "Moment": {"Year": 2015, "Month": 7, "Day": 25}, "Score": 4.0, "Summary": "A pretty good giallo film, even though it is late in the cycle.", "Text": "The career of director Lamberto Bava is a very erratic one. It seems for evey good film we got (MACABRE a.k.a. FROZEN TERROR - 1980), we also got a terrible one (DEVIL FISH - 1984). He gave us the superbly twisted DEMONS (1985) and the fair-to-middling DEMONS 2 (1986), but then also gave us the supremely bad DEMONS III: THE OGRE (1988; but, to be fair, that was an Italian TV movie). In other words, Bava's output was a little schizophrenic, but there was always one thing you could count on in both his bad and good films: you would get plenty of gory violence. Personally, I think he has more hits than misses, but some of his films defy description, such as DELIRIUM: PHOTO OF GIOIA (1987), and even his minor films, such as BLASTFIGHTER (1984) and BODY PUZZLE (1992), gave us the over-the-top violence we craved in the 80's & early-90's (He would usually use the pseudonym \"John Old Jr.\" on his minor or bad films as a tribute to his father, genre maestro Mario Bava, who used the pseudonym \"John Old\" on some of his older films, before he became an established name of quality entertainment). Which brings us to A BLADE IN THE DARK, which was a late entry in the giallo genre with a little of Alfred Hitchcock's PSYCHO (1960) and Brian De Palma's BLOW OUT (1981) mixed in for good measure. It's not the greatest mystery thriller, but it is an entertaining one that gives us more than enough nudity and violence to make up for some huge holes in Dardano Sacchetti (THE PSYCHIC - 1977; THE BEYOND - 1981) and Elisa Briganti's (MANHATTAN BABY - 1982; HANDS OF STEEL - 1986) screenplay. The film opens up with two young boys pressuring another young boy to enter the basement of what is probably a haunted house. They tease him by repeating. \"You're a female! You're a female!...\" and throw a tennis ball down the stairs, telling him if he doesn't want to be called a female, he will go down the stairs and get the ball. The young boy slowly walks down the stairs, while we hear the sound of a heartbeat on the soundtrack. When the boy disappears in the shadows and then screams, the heartbeats stop and someone (or something) throws the tennis ball up the stairs, it hitting a wall and leaving a round bloodstain where it impacts. The two young boys flee as if their lives depended on it (and probably crapping their pants in the process). We are then introduced to film composer Bruno (Andrea Occhipinti; Lucio Fulci's THE NEW YORK RIPPER - 1982, which he acted in using the pseudonym \"Andrew Painter\"), who is about to compose music for his first horror film. His agent, Tony Rendina (future director Michele Soavi; STAGE FRIGHT - 1987; THE CHURCH - 1989; he's an Assistant Director on this film and is badly dubbed), has rented Bruno a secluded villa where he can concentrate on creating music without distractions, but as we will soon find out, that is not going to happen. The director of the horror film, Sandra (Anny Papa; THE GREAT ALLIGATOR - 1979), will not give Bruno the final reel of the film, rather letting Bruno's seclusion and imagination take over in composing the soundtrack. She believes her horror film needs a music soundtrack from a composer that has never done a horror film before (Actually, the music we hear Bruno composing comes from the outstanding de Angelis brothers, Guido and Maurizio, who have done the soundtracks to such genre films as THE MOUNTAIN OF THE CANNIBAL GOD [1978]; ALIEN 2: ON EARTH [1980] and many others, sometimes using the name \"Oliver Onions\") The only other person around, who lives in a guest house next to the villa, is caretaker Giovanni (Stanko Molnar; Bava's MACABRE - 1980), who basically keeps to himself, even though he looks sinister. When Bruno goes to sit at his piano and record his first session to the soundtrack, he notices that a nude photo of one of the women in his girly magazines has been sliced-up (We earlier see an unknown person with one of those retractable X-Acto knives [the kind that \"clicks\" when you move the blade up or down], slicing up that picture while Bruno is not present), but Bruno thinks it was Giovanni and one of his quirks and continues composing. Bruno think that Giovanni is the only other person around. That is, until he finds Katia (Valeria Cavalli; MOTHER OF TEARS - 2007) hiding in one of his closets (She is a neighbor from down the road and wanted to meet her new neighbor). Before they can talk, Tony calls on the phone and Katia goes to use the bathroom, but when Bruno is done talking to Tony, Katia has disappeared. He discovers Katia's diary in the closet and begins reading it, where she says that she is about to reveal a big secret to someone very soon. Bruno continues to record the soundtrack, while a killer with the same X-Acto knife attacks Katia outside, slicing her face and her hand, but she gets away, only to get caught behind some chicken wire fencing where the killer graphically cuts Katia's stomach and slices her throat through the openings in the chicken wire. Bruno can't hear her screams because he is playing the piano and recording it. He plays back his recording while the killer is dragging the dead corpse of Katia away, where he hears a strange abnormality on the tape. It sounds like a woman's voice, but he can only make out \"Secret...yes, Linda...no one must know\" and writes it down on a piece of paper (It seems to be almost the same thing Katia wrote in her diary). Bruno steps outside to smoke a cigarette and nearly catches the killer dragging Katia's body away, but when he steps back inside to find droplets of blood on his pants, he goes outside again to discover even more blood, but no body. He once again returns to the inside of the villa, only to find his recording destroyed and pages from Katia's diary burning in the fireplace. Someone is trying to cover up their tracks. Bruno's actress girlfriend, Julia (Lara Naszinski; Lucio Fulci's AENIGMA - 1987), pays him a surprise visit, and when he mentions that Katia payed him a visit and he thinks she now may be dead, she acts like a jealous b**ch and  leaves (not even caring that Katia, whom she thinks Bruno believes is more beautiful than her, may have been murdered). Bruno does some research and discovers that a woman named Linda rented the villa before him and Tony tells him that he put some of her stuff in a locked room in the cellar. Tony tells him to forget about the room and finish his music soundtrack when Bruno asks for the key. Katia's friend Angela (Fabiola Toledo; Bava's DEMONS - 1985) stops at the villa to talk to Bruno and ask if she can use the pool. Bruno has no objections and we then see the killer watching Angela strip naked in the poolhouse to get into her bathing suit. While Angela is swimming in the pool, she discovers the X-Acto knife at the bottom and places it at the edge of the pool. Bruno has made a trip to the film studio, where both we and Bruno discover that the scene we saw at the beginning of the film with the three boys is actually part of the final reel of Sandra's horror film, while Bruno plays the scene in forward and reverse to get a sense on how to score it (What the two mean boys call the other boy turns out to be a major clue as to who the killer is). The killer, who we now discover has hands with red nail polish and wears a nice pair of black pumps, plunges a knife into Angela's hand while she is washing her hair in a sink, pinning her hand to the counter. The killer murders Angela by putting a clear plastic bag over her head and banging her cranium over and over on the porcelain sink until the plastic bag fills with her blood (there's a particularly nasty scene of the knife that is pinning Angela's hand slicing it until her hand is free). The killer pulls the knife out of the counter and cuts Angela's throat for good measure. Eerily, the killer seems to be disturbed by all the blood that is scattered throughout the bathroom (and it is a lot!) and takes the time to clean it up before leaving. Now is the time I ask readers a few questions, because I never give away the ending of a giallo film in my reviews. Here are the questions: Is the mysterious Linda involved because she is hiding something (or someone) in that locked room in the basement? Is Julia so jealous that she will kill any woman who gets close to her boyfriend (she shows up during the final third of the film holding a big knife)? Is Sandra using Bruno as a pawn to come up with a good final act to her film? Could Bruno actually be the killer since we never see him and the killer in the same shot (not even when he discovers the blood on his pants)? What about Giovanni, as we never see him leave the property or even have a girlfriend? And what does a cedar chest full of tennis balls have to do with it all? I've given you more than enough clues. Now you need to figure it out.  Actually, the killer's identity is rather easy to figure out since there are precious too few red herrings. I'm not going to tell you who it is, but it all makes sense in the end. Lamberto Bava borrows many themes from other giallo and slasher films, but he gives us some wince-inducing moments here, especially Angela's pinned hand slowly being sliced open between her fingers as the killer is bashing her head in, putting pressure on her hand to move backwards, as the camera lovingly stays on the hand as it is being sliced open. As a giallo film, this is just average and full of holes (The villa that Bruno is living in is supposed to be secluded, but he sure gets a lot of visitors and it seems to be a short car ride to the film studio), but it is still entertaining nonetheless. The trick here is that every person in the film holds some type of bladed weapon at one time or another in the film, so any of them could be the killer but, as the film progresses and the small cast begins getting killed, it is obvious at the halfway point that only one person could be the killer. There's a quite surprising death in the finale, but I will not spoil it for you, other than to say I thought that person would survive. The film made its premiere in edited form on VHS from Lightning Video and then was released supposedly uncut on VHS and DVD early in the New Millennium by Anchor Bay Entertainment in a 104-minute version. Blue Underground then gained home video rights and delivered a beautiful fully uncut 109-minute version in anamorphic widescreen (1.85:1) from original vault materials. If you are a giallo completest (and what genre fan isn't?), then A BLADE IN THE DARK should be part of your library. Also featuring Giovanni Frezza and Marco Vivio. A Blue Underground DVD Release. Not Rated.", "Helpful": 4}, {"Profile": "bob", "Moment": {"Year": 2001, "Month": 6, "Day": 15}, "Score": 5.0, "Summary": "Very strong giallo", "Text": null, "Helpful": 5}]}