{"ID": "B000BB18HW", "Title": "Post Apocalyptic Triple Feature (2019: After the Fall of New York / 1990: Bronx Warriors / The New Barbarians)", "Intro": null, "IMDB": null, "Score": 3.8, "Year": -1, "Genre": [], "Director": [], "Starring": ["Fred Williamson", "Vic Morrow"], "Supporting": null, "Reviews": [{"Profile": "Fred Adelman", "Moment": {"Year": 2015, "Month": 7, "Day": 25}, "Score": 4.0, "Summary": "One of the first and still prophetic.", "Text": "I have always been a huge proponent of foreign-made post-apocalypse films made after the success of THE ROAD WARRIOR (1981), especially the ones coming from the Philippines and Italy. There are two Filipino directors  (who are sadly no longer with us), Cirio H. Santiago and Bobby A. Suarez (WARRIORS OF THE APOCALYPSE - 1985) who were exceptional in this genre, but no other country than Italy churned out so many entertaining post-nuke films, with well-established directors like Joe D'Amato (2020 TEXAS GLADIATORS - 1982; ENDGAME - 1983 [One of my favorites]); Lucio Fulci (THE NEW GLADIATORS - 1983); Bruno Mattei (RATS: NIGHT OF TERROR - 1984 (one of the most unusual films in the genre and, oh, that ending!]); Sergio Martino (AFTER THE FALL ON NEW YORK - 1983; HANDS OF STEEL - 1986); Giuliano Carnimeo (EXTERMINATORS OF THE YEAR 3000 - 1983); Romelo Guerrieri (THE FINAL EXECUTIONER - 1984); Tonino Ricci (RUSH - 1983; RAGE - 1984); Giuseppi Varo (URBAN WARRIORS - 1987) and Vanio Amici (BRONX EXECUTIONER - 1989) dipping their toes into the genre, usually using Anglicized pseudonyms. But, for my money, no one made more entertaining post-apocalypse films better than Enzo G. Castellari, who used not only post-nuke themes, but \"borrowed\" ideas from other films as well. This film was one of the first to be released theatrically after the success of the Mel Gibson blockbuster and it not only contains themes from that film, but also has major nods to THE WARRIORS (1979) and ESCAPE FROM NEW YORK (1981). In the beginning of the film, we are informed that \"In 1990, the Bronx is officially declared 'No Man's Land'. The authorities gave up on all attempts to restore law and order. From then on, the area is ruled by 'The Riders'\" (I know some people in the Bronx today that would agree with that very statement!). We then see young woman Ann (Stefania Girolami; Castellari's THE LAST SHARK - 1981; she's the daughter of the director) running across a bridge into the Bronx. It seems some important people want to get their hands on her, but she thinks hiding out in the Bronx will deter their search. It won't. Ann escaped from a private school she was forced to attend, so when she escapes, the CEO of The Manhattan Corporation, Samuel Fisher (Enio Girolami; Castellari's DAY OF THE COBRA - 1980; he's the brother of the director), hires \"The Hammer\" (Vic Morrow, in one of his last movies before he was beheaded by a helicopter accident on the set of TWILIGHT ZONE: THE MOVIE - 1983) to capture Ann, who we see is being harassed by The Zombies, a rollerskating gang that carry hockey sticks. Along come the motorcycle-riding gang The Riders, whose leader, Trash (Mark Gregory; WAR BUS COMMANDO [1989]; whose one expression is that of someone cutting a wet one and he can't get the stink out of his nose,) saves Ann after he and his three gang members take out The Zombie members in memorable ways (One Rider member has a motorcycle equipped with spring loaded blades. He makes one pass at two Zombie members running away and cuts their legs, causing them to fall. When he returns, he cuts the throats on the prone-position Zombie members with the blades.). Trash is actually a nice guy and asks Ann he he would like him to return her to the safety of Manhattan, but Ann says she would rather stay in the Bronx (Trash says, \"Nothing is worse than this hellhole!\", to which Ann replies, \"That's what you think!\"). Ann joins The Riders (she even gets her own motorcycle) and their first stop is a pier on the ocean where one of Trash's buddies is found impaled on a huge shard of wood (to make the scene even weirder, we see a drummer in the distance playing his drum kit, like it is the theme music for The Riders!). Enter The Tigers (and a different drumming tune!), another gang that drives impeccably souped-up versions of classic hot rods. The head of The Tigers, The Ogre (Fred Williamson, who is no stranger to Italian post-nuke films, appearing in four of them!), tells Trash that he killed his friend because he was working undercover for the police in Manhattan and pulls out a tracking device (which looks like a digital wristwatch) that he says his friend was wearing (In this film, the police are the worst of the worst, putting any of the Bronx gangs to shame when it comes to dirty deeds, something else I'm sure a lot of people in the real Bronx actually think is true!). The Ogre tells Trash to watch his back, because if his friend was working for the police, odds are another member is, too (He's right, as we will soon find out). Sam Fisher assures his boss (played by the director using the name \"Enzo Girolami\", which is what the \"G\" stands for in Enzo G. Castellari) that he will bring Ann (Which he calls \"The most influential woman in the world\") out of the Bronx and to the safety of Manhattan, a feat which will prove difficult because, for the first time in her life, Ann feels safe in the arms of Trash and makes him promise to never let anyone take her away. Problems arise when The Hammer (which Fred Williamson must have been peeved at, since he was known as \"The Hammer\" as far back as his 1972 blaxploitation film HAMMER. Even I still call him Fred \"The Hammer\" Williamson and he loves to be called that!) shows up at The Riders headquarters and kills two members at point-blank rage with blasts from his shotgun, so Trash and the rest of the gang chase him, seeing him jump on the running board of a semi truck traveling down the street. Trash and his gang manage to stop the semi, but the only person they find inside is the club-footed Hot Dog (Christopher Connelly; THE RAIDERS OF ATLANTIS - 1983); somehow The Hammer has escaped. Before Trash and his gang give their two dead members a Viking-style funeral, Trash finds a ring in the shape of a tiger's head next to their bodies, which vocal member Ice (John Loffredo; LADY FRANKENSTEIN - 1971), Trash's right-hand man, takes to mean that The Tigers are responsible and wants to have a rumble with them, but the level-headed Trash thinks this whole situation is a little too pat and is nothing but a trap. Then Ann tells Trash who she really is. When she turns 18 years-old in a few days, she will inherit the Manhattan Corporation, which controls 60% of the world's arms production and many people want to kidnap her (including her father, the vice-president of The Manhattan Corporation), so she signs the controlling interest over to them before they kill her. In other words, she is worth a boatload of money. Ann is kidnapped by The Zombies, whose leader is Golan (Italian staple George Eastman; real name: Luigi Montefiori, who has done more for Italian genre films than any other actor, appearing in five Italian post-nuke films, starring in classic films like Mario Bava's RABID DOGS [1974]; Joe D'Amato's gore-a-thon THE GRIM REAPER [a.k.a. ANTHROPOPHAGUS - 1980] and the semi-sequel MONSTER HUNTER [1981] and directing METAMORPHOSIS [1989]), so Trash and three of his men must travel to the other side of the Bronx, battling several costumed gangs, to get to The Tigers headquarters and ask The Ogre for his help. Trash makes a deal with the female head  (Carla Brait; TORSO - 1973) of The Iron Men Gang (who look like they stepped out of a dress rehearsal of Pippin!) to cross her territory without fighting, but Trash and his three men will have to fight a few other gangs (one of them dresses as mummies!) to get to The Tigers and not all will make it. Meanwhile, Ice has become a turncoat and is now working with The Hammer, who murders one of The Ogre's lieutenants and pins it on Trash. Just like Trash, The Ogre is a level-headed leader and doesn't for a minute believe that Trash is responsible for the death (It's nice to watch a film where leaders of gangs use their brains as much as they use their fists), so he agrees to join Trash (with his trusty whip-wielding right-hand woman Witch, played by Betty Dessy [her only film]) and rescue Ann. The despicable Ice also makes a deal with Golan to make money off of Ann and control the entire Bronx together. Trash finds friend and fellow Riders member Leech (Angelo Ranguso) strung-up and nearly dead. He tells Trash of Ice's plans and then dies. Hot Dog is also tired of being used by The Hammer and the Manhattan Corporation and decides to do something about it. The Ogre kills Golan and Trash frees Ann, while Hot Dog delays Ice long enough (but dies in the process when Ice kicks him in the stomach with a knife blade that protrudes out of the toe of his boot) for Trash to reach him and fight Ice in a battle to the death. Ice falls down a hole in the floor and is impaled in the stomach by a piece of rebar sticking out of the floor. The gangs party, while Ann plays piano, as they celebrate her 18th birthday and give her a cake in the shape of the Bronx. But The Hammer and his flame-thrower goon squad interrupt the celebration and kill nearly everyone, including Ann, while The Hammer just stands there laughing maniacally (The Ogre and Ann's deaths are particularly poignant, as are a few people, including Witch, that we see burning to death). The film ends with Trash killing The Hammer and dragging his body throughout the streets of the Bronx on the back of his motorcycle as the end credits roll. Don't worry, because Trash will return to take on a slew of new bad guys in Castellari's sequel BRONX WARRIORS 2 (a.k.a. ESCAPE FROM THE BRONX - 1983).  Although there are much more violent post-nuke films, the screenplay, by Castellari, Dardano Sacchetti and  Elisa Briganti (the last two also co-wrote the screenplays to Lucio Fulci's ZOMBIE [1979] and Lamberto Bava's A BLADE IN THE DARK [1983]), manages to give some of the leaders of the gangs a sense of humanity, even if they are living in subhuman conditions. That's not to say that they won't get violent when the circumstances demand it (The Ogre beheads a rival gang member when he tries to bite Trash, but Trash politely says \"Thanks\" to The Ogre.). Since most of the major players (besides Christopher Connelly) are dubbed, even though it looks like everyone is speaking English, the dialogue can sometimes be clumsy, but Enzo C. Castellari manages to build suspense and turn in a quite depressing finale, something I didn't expect. Castellari is an old hand at directing Italian genre films of every kind, making Spaghetti Westerns, Giallo films, Poliziottescos (Italian police and crime films), War Films (THE INGLORIOUS BASTARDS - 1978), the two previously mentioned Post-Nuke Films plus THE NEW BARBARIONS (a.k.a. WARRIORS OF THE WASTELAND - 1983), Action Films (LIGHT BLAST - 1985; HAMMERHEAD - 1987; STRIKER - 1988), Fantasies (SINBAD OF THE SEVEN SEAS - 1989) and a series of six popular Italian TV movies starring Bud Spencer as crime fighter EXTRALARGE (1991-1992; director Alessandro Capone [WITCH STORY - 1989] directed the next six films in the series from 1993 - 1994). He is still making films up to the time this review was written. Originally released on VHS in edited form by Best Film & Video Corp. and Media Home Entertainment. During the early years of the New Millennium, Shriek Show released this and a handful of other post-apocalypse films on DVD in widescreen. Back then, it was nice to see these film in their original aspect ratio. These films are now getting the love they deserve on Blu-Ray from Blue Underground, as are some of Cirio H. Santiago's post-nuke films on Blu-Ray from Code Red. It's about time that people started enjoying these film as something more than ROAD WARRIOR rip-offs. That may be the reason they were made, but they offer their own brand of entertainment value, including bloody violence and weird situations (I'm still reeling by the drummer sequence in this film!). If you have never seen one, this film is a good place to start since it was one of the first. Also starring Giovanni Bonadonna, Michelle Maren, Rocco Lero and Massimo Vanni. A Blue Underground Blu-Ray/DVD Combo Pack Release. It says \"Rated R' on the package, but it is actually the Unrated version.", "Helpful": 6}, {"Profile": "Orlando B0000M", "Moment": {"Year": 2018, "Month": 1, "Day": 16}, "Score": 5.0, "Summary": "My interest for the cheese has increased, and this one is cheese perfected!", "Text": null, "Helpful": 2}, {"Profile": "cookieman108", "Moment": {"Year": 2005, "Month": 6, "Day": 30}, "Score": 3.0, "Summary": "\"We were born dead...life means nothing.\"", "Text": null, "Helpful": 6}, {"Profile": "Eric M. Baker", "Moment": {"Year": 2017, "Month": 9, "Day": 8}, "Score": 1.0, "Summary": "Poor Even By Italian Film Standards", "Text": "The only saving grace is Fred Williamson. The plot is stolen from The Warriors and Escape From New York. The dialogue is horrid. The gangs are cheesy. The fights are poorly choreographed. The only reason to watch this would be for some old New York nostalgia. Aside from that don't waste your time.", "Helpful": 1}, {"Profile": "MoviemanKev", "Moment": {"Year": 2019, "Month": 9, "Day": 23}, "Score": 4.0, "Summary": "trash gold", "Text": "Not a conventionally good film but this Escape From New York-styled B-movie with The Hammer is a lot of trash gold. Whomever decided on that drum playing is a friggen genius.", "Helpful": 0}]}