{"ID": "B002YMV2ZO", "Title": "Jail", "Intro": null, "IMDB": null, "Score": 3.2, "Year": -1, "Genre": [], "Director": ["Madhur Bhandarkar"], "Starring": ["Manoj Bajpayee", "Neil Nitin Mukesh", "Atul Kulkarni", "Rahul Singh", "Mugdha Godse"], "Supporting": null, "Reviews": [{"Profile": "Fred Adelman", "Moment": {"Year": 2015, "Month": 11, "Day": 23}, "Score": 5.0, "Summary": "Probably the late Bruno Mattei's best film of the New Millennium.", "Text": "This is Bruno Mattei's second-to-last film and if there was one thing Bruno Mattei (here using his \"Vincent Dawn\" pseudonym) had until the day he died (May 21, 2007), it was the sleaze factor. If you want to see him use it in one of his best films, this is the film you need to see. As a matter of fact, it out-sleazes most of the WIP films of the 70's & 80's and does it so easily, it was like Mattei could do it with his eyes closed. But his eyes are wide open here and you should really, really purchase this DVD now that it is available on legitimate DVD from Intervision Picture Corp. in the United States, uncut and in anamorphic widescreen. And it looks fantastic. This made-in-the-Philippines WIP flick also contains some familiar male faces to those who were into action films from the Philippines during the 1980's. It has something for everyone. Full-frontal female nudity with women with extremely dark n***les, sleazy ultra violence (some which goes way beyond the bounds of good taste), lesbianism, torture, wh***houses, orgies and more things than a sleazehound could demand. And we know who we are. The movie opens with a ship motoring down a river, carrying three female prisoners who are about to be delivered to one of the worst female prisons in the history of film. The thing is, none of these three women say they are innocent. Lisa (Love Guttierrez) was caught for \"dirty trafficking for dirty people\". Carol (Amelie Pontailler) says she \"Whacked my pimp. That bastard SOB had it coming!\" Jennifer (Yvette Yzon; the star of Mattei's final two films ISLAND OF THE LIVING DEAD and ZOMBIES: THE BEGINNING [both 2007]) says, \"I've done everything you said and even worse!\". When the male guards see the ship pulling in to the dock, one of them says, \"Here comes some more occupants for the House Of Lost Souls!\" (The prison's name). The other guard says, \"They can't imagine what's in store for them!\" They are placed on a bus and make the long trip to the prison, nothing but a mud-caked hell of dirt and barely-standing buildings. The whole prison meets The Director (Odette Khan), where she tells the three newest recruits that they are no longer humans , they are numbers, and their numbers will be #51, #52 & #53. She also tells her prison guards to pull out prisoner #27 out of \"The Hole\" and when one of the guards tells The Director that she is dead, The Director still wants her to get twenty lashes, as a warning to anyone else who tries to escape, so they strip the corpse naked and whip her 20 times as the corpse's back turns into a bloody pulp. We then watch our three newest prisoners get naked power hose washings (while the female guards laugh their asses off) and then examined by 'The Doctor\" (David Brass; WARRIORS OF THE APOCALYPSE - 1985), who uses his fingers to explore every one of their orifices. They are then handed prison garb and put in a cell with a half-dozen other prisoners. \"Welcome to the Grand Hotel. Welcome to Hell!\" is their official greeting by the inmates. Jennifer talks to one of the veterans of the prison, Monica (Dyane Craystan), who says she's been here for an eternity for \"cutting off my old man's b***s.\" Lisa is threatened by a lesbian prisoner with a shiv and soon Lisa becomes her lady. Late that night, the three new girls are pulled out of their beds by The Director to meet the cruel and powerful \"The Governor\" (our old friend Jim Gaines; JUNGLE RATS - 1987) the owner of the island's wh***house, who says \"Well, well, well.\" and makes all three strip, but nothing happens to them...yet. We see some female returnees from the wh***house and they are beaten, bloody and unable to walk. The Director tells the three new prisoners in front of everyone else that if they refuse to go to the wh***house, they will end up like prisoner #27. The prisoners start a mini-riot when one of the wh***house women comes back dead and Jennifer demands to see a doctor. The Doctor appears and says he will write up a death certificate tomorrow morning for The Director (You can be damn sure that the certificate will be a lie). The prisoners dig her grave in the pouring rain and uncover some more dead bodies in the process (Ones that were probably never reported). The next morning, everyone's breakfast consists of nothing but a cup of liquid which is supposed to be coffee and then work removing rocks from the muddy earth (those that can't carry their load are beaten repeatedly). That night, Jennifer and Lisa are made to work in the wh***house where Mr. Alvarez (Bobby Benitez) beats Jennifer and Lisa senseless and tries to assault them. Jennifer knock him out (it begins to look like she not really saying who she actually is). The Director interrupts the communal shower (plenty of full-frontal female nudity) when she sees two lesbians going at it, so she gives them to two males guards to assault the lesbianism out if them. Jennifer is back at the wh***house where The Governor offers her a job at a party. When she declines, she is forced to pick a piece of paper out of a hat. She is then chained in a room and has to watch a woman tied naked to a bed by \"The Sadist\" (Mike Monty; FIREBACK - 1983; in his final film. He passed away on August 4, 2006 and is seen in a wheelchair here.). He and a group of men sit around the bed while a large snake is put on the naked woman's body. They force the snake to slither up her female parts, as The Sadist and his men watch her die. Monica is tied between two poles and given twenty lashes just for being Jennifer's friend, but The Governor says he needs Monica, so The Director substitutes prisoner #12 instead (another friend of Jennifer's). Jennifer and some other prisoners dig the grave for prisoner #12 and Jennifer says she found a way to escape. Too bad one of the prisoners, Valery (Xeah Atillano) is a snitch for The Director, who supplies her with a shot of heroin every day and reports the escape plans. The Governor has some very special plans for the three new prisoners, as well as some older ones (Monica has to spend a night in a cage half-filled with water by the dock, where the corpse of another female prisoner has her face chewed off by rats). As the rest of the prisoners kill Valery for being a traitor, Jennifer accepts The Governor's offer and has sex with him (The Governor says, \"You know, you're a pretty big wh**e!\"). This is part of Jennifer's plan for all the prisoners to escape, but The Governor is aware of it and has a special plan of his own. This is where the film turns into an ultra-bloody version of THE MOST DANGEROUS GAME (1932), as the Governor and his male buddies arm themselves with shotguns and automatic weapons and let the women prisoners run through the island for one hour before they begin to hunt them down. The Governor's only rule: There are no rules. Some native island guides lead The Governor and his men in hunting the women down. One woman is killed by a swinging spiked log, while two others are captured and killed (One is hanging from a tree quartered with a machete up her female parts with a sign around her neck saying \"Your Fate Will Be Worse\".) Jennifer pulls the machete out of her female parts and says that the hunters have made one fatal mistake: They have given them a weapon. Jennifer and the other prisoners find the second captured prisoner hanging from a tree, her body all cut to hell with another note hanging around her. This one says \"You Have No Hope\". Rachel (Cristina Castro) is found by the men and is shot over and over in her extremities by shotgun blasts, so she's still alive when the men have stopped firing. She's then gang-assaulted and killed (This is the highlight of the film for me. Yes, I know, I'm a sick SOB!). Lisa gets caught in a booby-trap that leaves her hanging upside-down. Before they can release her, Jennifer, Carol and Monica have to run away because they are being shot at. Poor Lisa is let down, stripped naked, tied to a tree, has her tongue cut out and than has both of her breasts cut off (nothing is left to the imagination and this is the film's most sadistic scenes, as one of the men sucks the blood from one of her missing breasts). Carol is bitten by a poisonous snake and says she has to stay behind. Jennifer gives her the machete and Carol feigns she is dead. When one of the men checks her body, she runs the machete up his crotch, but he pulls it out and cuts off Carol's head before he dies. Jennifer and Monica feel guilty and go back to check up on Carol, but when they find her headless body, they collect the man's shotgun and handgun and keep on traveling. Monica stays behind and tells Jennifer to make it to civilization to tell the government what is going on. Monica ends up killing The Governor with a few shotgun blasts, but the Director intervenes and says she will be made an example of back at the prison. They put a black hood around Monica's head and a noose around her neck, but before they can hang her, two big black limousines come through the gates and The Director is arrested. Jessica was a government plant all along and when she pulls the hood off of Monica's head, she says, \"I told you I would be back.\" For once the women win, as they clap while The Director is led away in handcuffs.  When Bruno Mattei passed away in 2007, so did films like this. He was the only Italian sleaze director still churning out films during the New Millennium, giving us copious nudity, graphic gore and dialogue as only the Italians could write it. Sure, a lot of Mattei's later films were stinky, but at least they were made. Better to watch an Italian piece-of-crap than an American-made piece-of-crap because at least you knew with the Italians, there was no such thing as bad taste. And bad taste is severely lacking in most American horror films today. We seem to cater more to the PG-13 crowd than the people who remember when horror films had balls. Mattei was the last one to remind us of that. To say he will be severely missed is a huge understatement. When the Italian horror industry died, Mattei found funding to make horror films in the Philippines, still keeping the Italian aesthetic, but using local actors instead. This way I got the best of both worlds: Italian-made films, with Filipino and expatriate actors I have admired since the 80's. Thanks for everything, Bruno Mattei. If there is such a thing as the afterlife, I hope you are living your dreams. I really pity those who don't buy DVDs anymore. The widescreen anamorphic print used by InterVision Picture Corp. is flawless and looked excellent on my Blu-Ray player. If you are deciding to wait to see this on Blu-Ray, let me ask you one question: When was the last time a Bruno Mattei film was released in that format? I think RATS: NIGHT OF TERROR (1983) and HELL OF THE LIVING DEAD (1980) were the only films if his released on Blu- Ray and on a double feature disc at that. Never say never, but this DVD looks excellent, so why deprive yourself? Not for the weak-hearted because of tons of nasty violence I haven't even touched on in this review. It has everything (and more) than a sleazehound like me demands, although films like this are not for all tastes. I think this is the best of Bruno Mattei's New Millennium films. I've been waiting for this one to get a legitimate U.S. release for nine years and I was not disappointed. Also starring Jenny Agwilla, Joana Lee and Vanessa Bolabas. An InterVision Picture Corp. DVD Release. Not Rated and damn proud of it. Even if it were to be cut to be R-Rated, it would only be a 10-minute film!", "Helpful": 52}, {"Profile": "Chumango", "Moment": {"Year": 2016, "Month": 12, "Day": 18}, "Score": 4.0, "Summary": "A Redeeming WIP movie by Bruno Mattei", "Text": null, "Helpful": 7}, {"Profile": "Avid reader", "Moment": {"Year": 2018, "Month": 3, "Day": 21}, "Score": 3.0, "Summary": "They aimed for sleaze, and succeeded", "Text": "As stated in the interview, they wanted to go to the extreme, and they certainly did it.  It was filmed in the Philippines, since they said if they took all the necessary precautions, they still wouldn't have been allowed to do what they did in Italy.  But could in the Philippines. This has all the hallmarks of a Euro-sleaze movie, and it certainly isn't for everyone's tastes. Based on what they were aiming for, they hit their target.  The snake scene is perhaps the most unnerving, and the snake was sedated, or so they said.  It also may be the most explicit scene.  I can really only give it three stars since it really is not my cup of tea but I wanted to see what the movie was about and this type of film.", "Helpful": 3}, {"Profile": "Amazon Customer", "Moment": {"Year": 2018, "Month": 2, "Day": 3}, "Score": 4.0, "Summary": "it's not bad", "Text": "not bad for being made in 2006. I think the 70's were the best time for WIP movies. Would have like to have seen more of a variety of ethnicity with the women in this movie.  I know it was made in the Philippines, but having several foreign girls would have made it better.", "Helpful": 1}, {"Profile": "William A. Tricomi", "Moment": {"Year": 2017, "Month": 1, "Day": 17}, "Score": 4.0, "Summary": "This movie has the reputation of being one of the ...", "Text": "This movie has the reputation of being one of the nastier WIP movies out there, and I say this does deliver on its promises.  Lots of nudity, female degradation, and blood galore.  Lots of over-the-top acting, but not necessarily out of place in this movie.", "Helpful": 4}, {"Profile": "Amazon Customer", "Moment": {"Year": 2016, "Month": 2, "Day": 14}, "Score": 3.0, "Summary": "The scenery is beautiful, the quality of the transfer is very good ...", "Text": "I do not have much knowledge of women-in-prison films, so don't know where this film fits within that genre. The scenery is beautiful, the quality of the transfer is very good and the women act well enough to carry the story forward. I found the nudity to be significantly less than rampant, and the menacing lesbians not very menacing. I would recommend this film, but would say that the description on the case greatly over exaggerates what to expect.", "Helpful": 14}, {"Profile": "John Smithkey III, RN, BSN", "Moment": {"Year": 2017, "Month": 3, "Day": 17}, "Score": 5.0, "Summary": "An excellent female prison movie!!", "Text": "The scenes and special effects in this movie leaves nothing to the imagination! If you like female prison movies, then this is a \" must have\" for your collection!", "Helpful": 2}, {"Profile": "ozone", "Moment": {"Year": 2017, "Month": 10, "Day": 18}, "Score": 4.0, "Summary": "It's Cool", "Text": "Very much a \"B\" movie but fun to watch.  Pretty graphic!", "Helpful": 2}]}