{"ID": "B008AL85A8", "Title": "Where Evil Lives", "Intro": null, "IMDB": null, "Score": 2.5, "Year": -1, "Genre": [], "Director": ["Richard L. Fox", "Stephen A. Maier", "Kevin G. Nunan"], "Starring": ["Claude Akins", "Peggy Aydelotte", "Mark Bender", "Mary Blake", "David Botts"], "Supporting": null, "Reviews": [{"Profile": "Fred Adelman", "Moment": {"Year": 2015, "Month": 11, "Day": 6}, "Score": 2.0, "Summary": "Claude Akins is the only reason to watch this film R.I.P.", "Text": "Everyone who knows me realizes I hate anthology films, but since this was Claude Akins' last film and it sat in the shelf from 1994 until Troma released it on DVD (in fullscreen, of course) in 2012, I said, \"What the heck, lets give it a look.\" I wish I didn't. The film opens up with rich guy Blake Rutherford II (James Coffey) getting out of his vintage Rolls Royce with beautiful female realtor Brandy Wine (Faye McKenzie) to look at the very expensive Spencer Mansion, Brandy gets a call and has to beg off for a while and tells him to ask the groundskeeper to give him details. He meets groundskeeper Jack Devlin (Akins) as he is digging a hole with a shovel, who tells him that the mansion has a very sordid history. His first tale (\"Hubert's Homecoming\" by director and screenwriter Stephan A. Maier) starts off in 1969, when Hubert (Peter Zaff) walks into the Stafford Mansion (which was a college dormitory at the time) and indiscriminately shoots everyone he sees (he shoots a couple playing Twister and then finds a girl hiding in the bathroom, puts the gun in her mouth and pulls the trigger). When he runs out of bullets, he pulls a Marlin off the wall, says \"Party's over!\" and we see him stab a guy hiding behind a bed over and over with the Marlin's blade-like nose, the blood covering Hubert's face (We see a Yogi Bear lamp dripping with blood). He is sent to prison for life, but an idiot working for an Innocence-like project is able to get Hubert off on parole in the mid-80's. His parents left him a house and his old vintage Thunderbird, but no money, because they spent it all paying lawyers to defend him. The idiot Innocence guy leaves and says he will be back tomorrow to find him a job and Hubert pulls a female doll out of his pocket, who he calls \"Betty\", and combs her hair. He then washes his car for about two hours, which catches the attention of his neighbors, who are sitting together on a lawn. One of them walks over to Hubert to see what he is doing. He says, \"I'm going back to college again!\" and hands the doll over to the guy, telling him to \"take good care of Betty!\" Yes, Hubert is still as mad as a hatter and when he drives to the Spencer Mansion, he must have missed the big sign that says \"Spencer House College Closed\". Hubert finds the house empty, which upsets him, so he goes upstairs to take a look, all the while singing a song whose lyrics are \"**** you Spencer College!\" He begins hearing voices calling his name and suddenly he is surrounded by the ghosts of the people he killed in 1969. They challenge him to a game of \"Quarters\" (I don't think I have to explain the rules), but the rules have been changed slightly. If Hubert fails to get the quarter into the shotglass, one of the ghosts can shoot him anywhere on his body. Hubert fails at his first try and gets shot in the shoulder. He fails at his second try and gets shot in the other shoulder. He is then made to pick up the quarter with his mouth and make one final try. He fails and we hear a gunshot, but the next shot we see is Hubert being led away from Spencer Mansion in a strait-jacket (with no bullet wounds) rambling-on about ghosts. Looks like he will be spending the rest of his life in a loony bin, with the ghosts to keep him company (we see them dancing around in a circle at their victory). This tale has a pretty bloody beginning, but a poor ending). Jack Devlin keeps on digging while he tells Blake a second story about the mansion which includes the Davis children and vampires  (Titled \"Midnight Date\" by director and screenwriter Kevin G. Nunan). The entire tale is narrated by an adult Jamie Davis (Dawn Carlile, who was looped by someone else!) when she was a young pre-teen (Beth McKenzie), who, along with sister Lori (Carol Rice) and bothers Tommy (James Jackson) and Timmy (Thomas Crooms). sneak into the boarded-up Spencer Mansion. Timmy, who has raging hormones, gets involved with a beautiful vampire who lives there and is soon bitten and becomes a vampire himself. When the young Jamie tells the police what she saw, the police don't believe her and her parents send her to her room (The reasoning of why Timmy never returns home is never brought up, which makes this story exceptionally stupid). The police check out the Spencer Mansion just in case, but they do such a lousy job, they don't even notice blood dripping from one of the door locks. Jamie and Tommy decide to check out the house themselves, armed with garlic, wooden stakes, holy water and a .22 caliber rifle (Where is Lori? Another stupid omission). They find a bowl of Tim's blood with the words \"Welcome Home Jamie\" written in blood on a wall. Jamie and Tom become separated and Tim tries to bite Jamie, but she has a crucifix to keep him away. Tom shoots the female vampire with no effect, but Jamie stabs her in the back with a stake. The police arrive and kill Tom for carrying a rifle (Really?) and Jamie screams. Years later, we see the adult Jamie and suddenly we find out she has some special \"gift\" and kills Timmy in his coffin in the Spencer Mansion by hammering a stake in his heart. The family the slays together stays together (This short film is totally worthless for the main reason it totally lacks any cohesion. What about Jamie's parents? What about the reports of vampire murders over the years? It just makes no sense.).  Jack Devlin tells Blake one final story (Titled \"Saved By The Spell\" by director and screenwriter Richard L. Fox Jr.). Jack tells Blake that this mansion was recently called the \"Gabriel Manor\". Blake asks if this was the doctor with all kinds of awards that went off the deep end, but Jack tells him there is much more to the story. We open this tale with female detective Jessica Peters (Louise LeTorneau), who is also a white (good) witch, performing some type of ritual involving lots of candles in a circle and a small noose and soon the police find a notorious criminal hanging from his own garage. There is also another sadistic killer named Nico Moretti (Larry Quadagno, listed here as \"Larry Q\") roaming the area on a motorcycle that is killing women and stealing their internal organs, supplying them to Dr. Henry Gabriel (Dan Daly) for his nefarious experiments (he not running an illegal organ donor transplant operation). We watch as Nico (who is wearing surgical latex gloves) strangling a woman in her own home. He pulls out a scalpel and removes her kidney (or liver; it's not made clear) and puts it in a plastic sandwich bag, taking off on his motorcycle and handing it over to Dr. Gabriel for an envelope full of money. Dr. Gabriel tells Nico that he needs another organ and Nico agrees to do it if the price is right. The police and the FBI, who are working together, know that Dr. Gabriel and Nico are involved in these crimes but all they have is circumstantial evidence; not enough to arrest them. Nico kills another woman when she cuts him badly in the stomach and he dumps her in a lake. Witch Jessica has two of the three bodily fluids from Nico  (blood and urine), but she needs a third bodily fluid to give Nico what he deserves. She is lucky because her best friend is Chief Jim Thompson (Larry Silver), who is a firm believer in her powers. Nico wants out of the organ removal business, but Dr. Gabriel talks him into one more job for twice the money. He will not have to remove any organs, but bring an actual body to him. Nico accepts and goes to retrieve the \"patient\", but Jessica purposely runs his motorcycle off the road and takes his injured body to her house, where they make love in a shower (she collects his semen, the last bodily fluid she needs to make her spell work). Jim and the FBI go to Gabriel Manor and arrest Dr, Gabriel (after an FBI agent is shot and killed by Gabriel) and his assistant Miss Tessball (Arlee Hendricks), who has a thing for Nico. Unfortunately Jessica's spell makes Nico explode in his car, so it's bye, bye, Nico. (This is the best episode in the trio, but it is still very weak and full of implausible plot holes).  Blake tells Jack Devlin that this mansion certainly has a strange history and wants to know what the hole is for. Jack replies, \"It's your grave!\" and nearly decapitates Blake with the shovel as he pushes him into the hole. Brandy Wine returns and says, \"Not bad, Jack!\" (as we watch a still-alive Blake bleeding to death in the grave). Jack buries Blake alive while Brandy Wine says she is bringing another interested party to look at the house. Ah, the circle of life. Ain't life grand?  Be sure to stay through the end credits for a nice tribute to Claude Akins. The Troma DVD lists the release date as 1989; the IMDb lists it is 1991, while the copyright on the actual film lists it as 1994. This one makes more sense than the other ones because Claude Akins died on January 24. 1994 of cancer at 67 years-old and taking the post-production and editing processes into consideration, it would have to have been filmed then. If it wasn't, why the final tribute to Akins three or five years before he died? Maybe the three episodes were filmed at different times, but the Akins footage was definitely the latest footage in the film (and the most professional-looking). While I have seen worse anthology films out there, Akins is the only professional here and the rest are nothing but Florida locals, most who have never acted before (and it shows). I consider this film to be too cheap and boring to be thought of as entertainment, but it is an important document due to it being Akins' last film. I just wonder why it sat on the shelf for 18 years before finally being released? You should ask that question, too, before you put the DVD into your player. Fans of anthology films may have a better time with this movie than I did. It's all a matter of taste. Everyone's is different, which I why I very rarely condemn a film (Unless it's unredeemable trash like AMERIKAN HOLOKAUST - 2013)  Richard L. Fox Jr. was Assistant Director on DONNIE DARKO (2001) and First Assistant Director on THE EXPENDABLES (2010). Stephan A Maier was a bit actor on WELCOME TO SPRING BREAK (1989) before making another directorial film for Troma called MONDO ART (2013). Kevin G. Nunan never did another single thing in the filmmaking business. I can't say I'm surprised based on his episode in this film. Also starring Blaise Stevens, Melissa Coleman, James Jackson, Roberta McMillan, Wayne Chalifoux, Peggy Aydelotte and Rebecca Storrow. A Troma DVD Release. Not Rated.", "Helpful": 0}, {"Profile": "Bindy Sue Fr\u00f8nk\u00fcnschtein", "Moment": {"Year": 2015, "Month": 8, "Day": 1}, "Score": 3.0, "Summary": "\"Being The Caretaker Has Its Advantages!\"...", "Text": "WHERE EVIL LIVES is a low-budget horror anthology film. The first part, HUBERT'S HOMECOMING concerns a madman's murderous rampage, and his victims' ghostly revenge. Part two, MIDNIGHT DATE pits a psychic girl and her brother against a seductive vampire woman. Part three, SAVED BY THE SPELL has a witch using her occult arts to help police capture murderers. Her final case involves a serial killer who provides organs to an insane surgeon. The wrap-around story, CARETAKER, stars Claude Akins as the title character. He spins the ghoulish yarns of the film, and has some surprises of his own in store! Not a bad little TROMA production from 1991. It's, of course, made almost entirely of cheeeze, but this is to be expected...", "Helpful": 1}, {"Profile": "Dave", "Moment": {"Year": 2012, "Month": 9, "Day": 14}, "Score": 4.0, "Summary": "Not a bad independent film", "Text": null, "Helpful": 11}, {"Profile": "Sheryl Titone", "Moment": {"Year": 2015, "Month": 8, "Day": 11}, "Score": 3.0, "Summary": "Claude Akins' reanimated corpse in the role he was born to play!", "Text": null, "Helpful": 0}, {"Profile": "Katie C", "Moment": {"Year": 2015, "Month": 12, "Day": 26}, "Score": 1.0, "Summary": "You will only like this if you are a huge fan of horrible B Horror movies.", "Text": "There is nothing redeeming about this movie.  A lot of reviewers are too forgiving because it is low budget.  But you do not need a lot of money to find decent actors or to write a good script.  This movie is good for only one thing.  Getting together with a bunch of sarcastic friends and giving it the MST3K treatment.", "Helpful": 0}, {"Profile": "Thomas C.", "Moment": {"Year": 2017, "Month": 4, "Day": 15}, "Score": 2.0, "Summary": "A waste of time.", "Text": "Not really worth watching, a waste of time.", "Helpful": 0}, {"Profile": "Raven", "Moment": {"Year": 2015, "Month": 8, "Day": 28}, "Score": 5.0, "Summary": "Variety Of Horror Stories Make An Amazing Movie", "Text": "Awesome movie with a great variety of  horror stories. Great acting characters and plot. The separate stories put together create one awesome movie", "Helpful": 0}, {"Profile": "cynthia castillo", "Moment": {"Year": 2015, "Month": 10, "Day": 27}, "Score": 2.0, "Summary": "Cheesy Horror Comedy", "Text": null, "Helpful": 0}]}